Token due diligence: 
a structured approach 
to evaluate digital 
asset risk 
February 2024
Token due diligence: a structured approach to evaluate digital asset risk
2
Table of contents 1.	
General token due diligence framework: a primer	
3
2. Reputational and strategic	
4
2.1 People and entity risk	
4
3. 	
Technical	
	
4
	
3.1	
Network design	
4
	
	
3.1.1 	
Decentralization	
6
                             3.1.2 	
Bridging	
6
                             3.1.3 	
Blockchain architecture	
6
                             3.1.4 	
Governance	
6
                3.2 	
Smart contract	
7
                3.3 	
Maintenance and upgrades	
8
                          	 3.3.1 	
Layer-1 protocols	
9
                            	3.3.2 	
Decentralized applications	
9
4. 	
Financial	
	
9
	
4.1	
Tokenomics	
10
	
	
4.1.1	
Layer-1 protocols	
10
	
	
4.1.2  Decentralized autonomous organizations (DAOs)	
10
	
4.2	
Financial metrics and ratio analyses	
11
	
	
4.2.1	
Layer-1 protocols	
11
	
	
4.2.2	
Decentralized autonomous organizations (DAOs)	
12
5. 	
Legal and compliance	
12
5.1 Securities analysis	
12
6. 	
Cybersecurity	
	
13
6.1 Governance and operational security	
13
7. 	
Auditability	
	
14
7.1 Auditability and ownership	
14
8. 	
Summary	
	
15
9.	
How we can help	 	
15
3
Introduction
With more than 10,000 digital asset tokens tracked by CoinGecko in circulation, it may be difficult to 
ascertain quality from noise, memetic from consequential and groupthink from adoption.

Though it may 
be likely that many of these tokens currently provide no tangible value to holders aside from a form 
of speculation and community engagement, a small subset may revolutionize the world as innovative 
disintermediation tools with robust value capture. The purpose of this framework is to provide a 
methodology when assessing exposure to tokens. 1. General token due diligence framework: a primer
A general risk framework to evaluate tokens can be organized in a multitude of ways. Some crypto-native 
firms have produced publicly available frameworks; some 
regulatory bodies, such as the New York State Department 
of Financial Services, are known to require coin-listing 
policies to meet rigorous standards; and other market 
participants presumably have privately held approaches 
for assessing tokens. Each of these players has its 
own risk tolerance thresholds, driven by internal risk 
management appetite, specific to an industry, or sector, 
and business model. As such, we have developed a token 
risk assessment framework that attempts to remain party 
agnostic and should be of interest to any entity interested 
in further assessing token risks. 

For this paper, we define the following six risk pillars as a 
general representation of our methodology: reputational 
and strategic, technical, financial, legal and compliance, 
cybersecurity, and auditability. We will dive into several 
sub-risk categories for each pillar, as noted in the table 
below in bold. We apply both technical and nontechnical lenses to this 
framework primarily to remain party agnostic but also 
because decentralized finance (DeFi), in its current state, 
is both technologically sophisticated and regulatorily 
immature. Therefore, risk disclosures prevalent in 
regulated consumer financial products generally are absent 
in cryptocurrencies. A sufficient mix of technological due 
diligence and research on external project factors must be 
conducted for proper baseline coverage. 

This framework is not all-encompassing, nor will we touch 
on all sub-risk categories in this paper, but it should provide 
the reader with a preliminary framework that can be 
further built upon as the industry continues to evolve.
Reputational and 
strategic
Technical
Financial
Legal and 
compliance
Cybersecurity
Auditability
•	 People and 
entity
•	 Environmental, 
social and 
governance 
(ESG)
•	 Network design
•	 Smart contract 
risk
•	 Upgrades and 
maintenance
•	 Tokenomics
•	 Financial 
metrics and 
ratio analyses
•	 Treasury 
management
•	 Securities 
analysis
•	 Compliance
•	 Illicit or criminal 
activity
•	 Governance 
and operational 
security
•	 Audit and 
ownership
Token due diligence: a structured approach to evaluate digital asset risk
2. Reputational and strategic  2.1 People and entity risk While it may be common to suggest that autonomous 
code will control the future of on-chain transactions, the 
participants behind the code at the social layer often have 
an immense impact and are commonly overlooked. A 
foundational consideration for a token is whether the core 
team members have elected to operate as anonymous or 
as public figures. Often, linking one’s real-life identity to 
on-chain activity can bring credibility and legitimacy to a 
project.

However, teams often decide to build anonymously 
for a variety of reasons, including regulatory risk, personal 
privacy and reputational risk. Teams that build with non-anonymous founders have 
demonstrated high levels of accountability and success. Ethereum, Solana, Uniswap, Maker, Aave and Compound 
are examples of projects with public founders that have 
sustained billions of dollars in total value deposited into 
the protocols they have built. These projects have built 
great user experiences and generated revenue over the 
last two years.1 Even during bouts of high market volatility 
and an extended “crypto winter,” these projects have 
demonstrated talent retention, community engagement 
and continuity in building new products. When considering 
initial or even follow-on funding rounds to finance 
operations, establishing relationships with accountable, 
public leadership may help assuage investor concerns 
and allow for greater interoperations between portfolio 
companies and that entity. On the other hand, however, 
some public founders are known to have experienced major 
faults in execution. These founders typically did not launch 
decentralized networks or projects, but rather used a token 
launch to market their centralized lending platform or 
exchange.

Using their public credibility may have allowed 
these entities to increase leverage or misappropriate funds 
using their centralized company and token as an opaque 
layer sitting above the underlying problems.  Comparatively, anonymous founders have demonstrated 
more mixed track records. Satoshi Nakamoto has been 
the most successful anonymous founder to date in 
terms of token market cap, but Satoshi may be the 
exception rather than the rule. There have been a slew 
of application layer protocols, with anonymous founders 
or core team members, that have not ended well for 
investors. Potential fraudulent behavior aside , by nature 
of their anonymity, protocols with anonymous founders 
can be very difficult to hold accountable. Although there 
appears to be a relationship between success of a project 
and non-anonymous founders, this does not implicitly 
suggest a deterministic link. It is therefore imperative to 
use judgment when incorporating this evaluation into a 
due diligence review. It is likely more appropriate to use 
this criterion as a means of gaining comfort that there 
is a single individual (or group of individuals) who can be 
assigned accountability.

They have chosen to put their skin 
in the game by staking their reputations on the success of 
the protocol and assume the risk of any nefarious activity.  3. Technical 
3.1 Network design The design of the underlying Layer-1 (L1) blockchain 
network is the basis in which any application-level token 
must operate and dictates the conditions in which the 
native cryptocurrency blockchain settles transactions. Therefore, several decisions are made based on the use 
case of the network itself. These decisions often represent 
an attempt to solve the blockchain trilemma of optimizing 
a network’s scalability, decentralization and security. Generally, projects choose to focus on two out of three 
based on the goal of the network itself. For example, a 
project intended to have higher throughput and lower 
transaction fees on its network may choose to optimize for 
scalability and security at the expense of decentralization 
by relying on a small set of validators nodes that run 
expensive or specialized hardware.  What degree of decentralization is enough for censorship 
resistance? This is a difficult question to answer, as it 
cuts at the purpose of public blockchains in general: 
a censorship-resistant, credibly neutral, decentralized 
platform open to all.

Without these properties, the value 
proposition of public blockchains is far less compelling, 
and what remains is a centralized and computationally 
inefficient database. Therefore, maintaining a high level 
of decentralization is mandatory to protect against the 
risk of censorship at the network level.  Balaji Srinivasan attempted to measure decentralization 
by proposing the Nakamoto Coefficient, a quantitative 
measure of a system’s decentralization, motivated by 
the well-known Gini Coefficient and Lorenz Curve.2

The 
Nakamoto Coefficient represents the number of validators 
4
Token due diligence: a structured approach to evaluate digital asset risk
Figure 1 : Nakamoto Coefﬁcient among L1 protocols as of 2022.
0
5
10
15
20
25
28
1,627
1,734
22
11
7
6
6
3
130
47
135
100
74
30
-500
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
Figure 2: Subsystems of blockchains
5
Nakamoto Coefficient vs. total validators
AVALANCHE
SOLANA
TERRA
POLYGON
Nakamoto Coefficient
Number of validators
(nodes) that would have to collude together with malicious 
intent to impact the safety or liveness of the blockchain 
via invalid state transitions, distributed denial of service 
(DDOS) or block reorgs.3
On the surface, this may seem like a trivial exercise if you 
know the method of consensus and a few other public data 
points; however, Srinivasan expands on this calculation 
by considering several components of centralization that 
are measured at what he calls the “subsystem” level.  These subsystems represent components of a public 
blockchain ecosystem that can potentially compromise 
decentralization of a public Layer 1 network. If one 
of these subsystems is found to be centralized, then 
an argument can be made that the entire system is 
centralized.

Therefore, determining which subsystems 
are critical to a Layer 1 network must be a key 
consideration when attempting to calculate the 
Nakamoto Coefficient using this methodology. Subsystem
Centralization 
metric
Definition  Mining 
subsystem
Block reward
Measures distribution of the block 
reward over 24 hours Client subsystem
Codebase
Measures the distribution of client 
implementations (e.g., GETH vs. 
Parity)
Developers 
subsystem
Commit
Measures the number of 
engineers who have made 
commits
Exchange 
subsystem
Volume
Measures the volume traded 
across multiple exchanges
Node 
subsystem
Count
Measures node distribution across 
countries
Ownership 
subsystem
Address
Measures the number of unique 
addresses that contain an 
amount of the asset between 
a predetermined threshold
Token due diligence: a structured approach to evaluate digital asset risk
6
3.1.1 Decentralization
The higher the Nakamoto Coefficient relative to the 
total number of validators, the lower the risk of collusion 
disrupting a decentralized blockchain. Avalanche and 
Solana demonstrate higher levels of decentralization based 
on the Nakamoto Coefficient than the more centralized 
chains in the lower right quadrant, such as Polygon or 
BNB Chain. Centralization can lead to a higher risk of 
collusion at the validator level, allowing invalid blocks 
to be published or censorship in the case scenario.

In 
proof of stake chains, networks also run the risk of less 
than two-thirds of validators (either total validator nodes 
or combined stake weight) online at any given time, 
which can lead to forks and deep block reorgs as nodes 
struggle to reach consensus and finality. Centralization 
can compromise credible neutrality as in the case of BNB 
Chain, where a proof of authority version of Tendermint’s 
consensus framework allows for only 21 active validators. In October 2022, a malicious actor was able to steal 
$100 million in BNB, the chain’s native cryptocurrency.  The attack was ultimately hindered due to the validators’ 
ability to coordinate, identify the attack and halt the 
network, restricting the hacker’s ability to move the assets 
elsewhere. Although a case can be made that the viability 
of the network was saved due to its centralization, its 
credible neutrality is unclear, which could introduce risk 
to token holders. 3.1.2 Bridging
In addition, there are other technical design risks, aside 
from collusion at the consensus level, that blockchain 
protocols must contend with. Much of the L1 ecosystem 
today is built on cross-chain activity.

Many users rely on 
bridges from Ethereum to move assets back and forth 
by passing inter-blockchain messages. As bridges are 
inherently less secure due to reliance on more centralized 
security models, there are obvious trade-offs to make when 
bridging assets cross-chain. For example, holding non-
native tokens from one blockchain on another blockchain 
(such as wrapped bitcoin) incurs several risks of exploit, 
assuming these ecosystems do not share a common 
settlement layer.4
As an example, the Wormhole Bridge was exploited 
for 120,000 ETH. When ETH tokens are bridged from 
Ethereum to Solana via Wormhole, they are locked in a 
contract on Ethereum and subsequently minted on Solana.  The attacker bypassed the verification process of the 
Wormhole Bridge on Solana and successfully generated 
a malicious message that specified 120,000 Wormhole 
ETH (wETH) to be minted.5 The attacker then transferred 
93,750 wETH back to Ethereum, which resulted in the 
same amount of wETH on Solana unbacked.

This event 
introduced a level of systemic cross-chain risk that required 
a significant capital injection from Wormhole’s parent 
company as a backstop.6
3.1.3 Architecture
Additional risk considerations related to network design 
can also include a review of the blockchain’s architecture. 
For example, the concept of modular vs. monolithic 
blockchains can have a significant impact on scalability and 
security. The concept of modularity is important because it 
allows blockchain networks to outsource certain activities 
that are performed traditionally in monolithic blockchains, 
including consensus, data availability, execution and 
settlement. Ethereum’s commitment to modular 
architecture principles is seen in its proto-danksharding 
roadmap. Ethereum’s progressively modular design will 
allow it to enhance its ecosystem’s economic security by 
ensuring settlement will always happen at the Ethereum 
base layer. Overall, a robust architecture will increase 
security and provide more flexibility in design.  3.1.4 Governance
Governance is also a risk to holders of both tokens issued 
through smart contracts or base cryptocurrencies
(ETH / Bitcoin). Governance is generally designed into 
the operation of the network or decentralized application 
through the implementation of an economic coordination 
layer. Through governance processes, token holders are 
able to coordinate efforts to change, update and protect 
the network.

In 2022, Juno protocol, part of the Cosmos 
(ATOM) network, identified a prospective Sybil attack 
and began pre-emptively preparing for it as the token 
generation event (TGE) neared.7 The Juno attacker created 
50 wallets with 50,000 ATOM tokens, each entitling the 
attacker to 2.5m Juno tokens initially and more than 3m 
after staking rewards. The attacker’s actions broke the 
intent of the airdrop rules that stipulated a maximum of 
50,000 Juno tokens per 50,000 ATOM tokens. The Juno 
community took time to deal with the issue, which led to 
a contentious governance vote that split the community 
between those who felt the Juno tokens should be 
Token due diligence: a structured approach to evaluate digital asset risk
confiscated from the attacker’s account vs. those 
who believed the mistake should not be remedied. 
In a precedent-setting vote, the community passed 
Proposal 16, which confiscated a single individual’s 
wealth by performing a hard fork to rewrite the state 
of the network’s ledger. Although the action was taken 
for seemingly altruistic purposes, many consider this a 
blight on credible neutrality of public blockchains. On one 
hand, the attacker in this case did not take advantage of 
a technical exploit

; rather, they took advantage of a social 
exploit based on publicly available information. On the 
other hand, this event represented a near-existential risk 
for the protocol and the vote was put up to the community.  In either case, all players were aware of the risks involved 
and potential outcomes, and the community voted to 
protect itself. When considering governance, it is vital to 
research the following: Who has the most say (often, the 
most tokens)? Does a vote actually result in action being 
taken by the team? What controls are in place to combat 
governance attacks? 3.2 Smart contract risk A smart contract is a self-executing digital agreement 
that enables two or more parties to exchange anything 
of value in a transparent way without the need for 
custodial intermediation.8 Smart contracts have become 
a powerful way to build DeFi-integrated products through 
disintermediation and composability, allowing contracts 
to interact with one another. Ethereum is the most widely 
used (by total value locked (TVL)) general-purpose smart 
contract blockchain with 63.1% of TVL in DeFi applications 
out of all L1 blockchains as of October 2023.9

The majority of Ethereum contracts are written in Solidity 
or Vyper, with Solidity commanding the lion’s share of 
development activity.10 Solidity was designed to be simple 
and easy to use with many influences from C++, Python 
and JavaScript.11 There are robust, public smart contract 
libraries, testing frameworks, tooling and community 
support because of the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) 
network effect. Solidity has known vulnerabilities as well 
and should not be considered “risk free” based on its 
dominance alone.12 In fact, hacks, bugs and other exploits 
are an ongoing issue despite the ubiquity and transparency 
of smart contracts written in Solidity. Using tools to review 
smart contracts can be an efficient way to leverage the 
wisdom of the crowd and capitalize on the network effects 
mentioned above. The EY Smart Contract Review Tool 
(SCRT) has already been used successfully in this manner 
because the SCRT not only is designed to run tests against 
a library of commonly known exploits but also offers 
customizable functionality that allows testing against 
“what-if” scenarios. Figure 3 displays several examples 
of exploits on EVM (including non-Ethereum) chains.  One common type of exploit is a flash loan exploit.

A flash 
loan allows any participant to borrow a significant amount 
of undercollateralized capital if it is returned within the 
same transaction block that the loan originated in. Flash loans showcase the power of DeFi composability. They 
democratize access to arbitrage opportunities and facilitate 
folded leverage transactions and seamless collateral 
swapping. Since flash loans must be repaid within the 
same transaction , the cost of borrowing is only the cost 
of computation (gas). If the loan is not repaid, the entire 
transaction reverts.13 7  Protocol
Dollars (in millions)
Date
Exploit
Chain
Harmony
$100.0
6/24/2022
OpSec
Harmony
GYM
$2.1
6/10/2022
Smart contract exploit
BNB
DEUS DAO
$13.7
4/28/2022
Blockchain oracles
Ethereum
Beanstalk
$182.0
4/18/2022
Flash loan
Ethereum
Inverse Finance
$16.0
4/2/2022
Oracle
Ethereum
Ronin
$625.0
3/29/2022
Sybil
Ronin
Figure 3: EVM chain hacks
Token due diligence: a structured approach to evaluate digital asset risk 8
Flash loans are not inherently nefarious; however, they 
can be used to facilitate technically complex manipulations 
through traditional blockchain infrastructure that can 
be motivated by malicious intent.

As an example, a flash 
loan exploit occurred when a malicious entity, via smart 
contract, borrowed a significant sum of capital from a 
lending protocol that was then used to manipulate market 
pricing, causing an artificial arbitrage opportunity. This, 
in turn, allowed the user to accumulate a large amount 
of a single token and conduct a Sybil attack on protocol 
governance, which allowed it to push a nefarious proposal 
through formal governance channels. This resulted in the 
entity’s ability to drain the token’s primary liquidity pool 
and then repay the loan all in the same transaction, netting 
$186 million in profits.14 
Other smart contract risks include unaudited codebases.  Companies, such as Trail of Bits, provide smart contract 
auditing services that review contract code for flaws 
and return a report that can be posted on the protocol’s 
website to demonstrate transparency. However, not 
all protocols use auditing services, and not all auditing 
services are the same. Additionally, the availability of a 
report does not necessarily indicate a “seal of approval” 
or represent a form of assurance in the same way an audit 
opinion does.

In most cases, reports will identify code flaws 
and provide remediation activities, but there is no simple 
mechanism to ensure that all items have been addressed 
by the project team short of monitoring future code 
commits through a code repository.  Even with audited codebases, it is important to consider 
vulnerabilities in popular code libraries, especially from 
newer chains. In 2022, a vector vulnerability in the 
Solana Program Library, a repository of many code 
implementations for specific programs and functions, could 
have allowed exploiters to drain the entire TVL of several 
protocols. The vulnerability was present due to a rounding 
error through which users could have continuously 
deposited and withdrawn funds until several DeFi protocols 
were drained, thus making a profit from the rounding error, 
minus Solana network fees which are, by design, very 
low. Notably, this attack would not have been feasible 
on Ethereum due to higher transaction fees as a means 
of Sybil resistance. 3.3 Maintenance and upgrades
Despite what a token is designed to do, there will always 
be the question: Who will maintain and upgrade the 
codebase? 

At the blockchain level, independent organizations, such 
as the Ethereum Foundation, fund active research and 
development of the core protocol specifications to be 
implemented by execution and consensus layer client 
teams. The research team is composed of experts in 
computer science and cryptography. As an example, 
EIP–1559 introduced a transaction-pricing mechanism 
called the base fee. As a function of past block demand, 
the base fee adjusts gradually to help smooth expected 
transaction fees on Ethereum and is subsequently burned 
from total supply. Concurrent to the base fee adjusting, 
Ethereum block sizes adjust to allow greater throughput 
during periods of high block demand, resulting in the base 
fee increasing to dissuade marginal transactors via higher 
costs to promote an equilibrium. EIP–1559 took about two 
years to implement from its initial code repository creation 
due to the robustness of the EIP implementation process.15
The key components regarding protocol maintenance are 
twofold. First, the level of transparency in governance 
processes is vital. More transparency provides the 
public more opportunity to weigh in on, scrutinize and 
advocate for changes that the community aligns with. 

In more mature environments, such as Ethereum, the 
risk of malicious code making its way into production is 
significantly less due to the amount of visibility inherent 
to the EIP governance processes and amount of Ethereum 
community engagement in vetting proposal concepts and 
source code. The same cannot be said for most newer 
protocols that do not have the commensurate levels of 
engagement. Therefore, it is imperative to scrutinize token 
governance processes to understand the level of activity, 
the major players and personalities, and the concentration 
of voting power. And second, transparency of source code 
provides an easy way to determine whether a protocol is 
using public, battle-tested code libraries.  Token due diligence: a structured approach to evaluate digital asset risk
3.3.1 Layer-1 protocols
Many L1 protocols are not yet sufficiently decentralized, 
and project teams often have direct control over software 
upgrades and business development. Typically, these 
protocols have a form of limited on-chain governance 
abilities. This can be considered higher-risk protocol 
management because it allows for unilateral decision-
making. By maintaining a centralized development team, 
the broader community is unable to develop organically, and community input may be overlooked.

Organic 
community development has a strong correlation to 
economic sustainability due to the formation of a social 
consensus around values-based Schelling points instead of 
monetary considerations. Inorganic communities collapse 
as they coordinate around the speculative returns of the 
native token, the Terra Luna saga being the prime example.  It is, however, unlikely that many projects start from a 
fully decentralized model. A measure of centralization is 
often required to initially bootstrap activity and coordinate 
efficient decision-making, which is critical in early-stage 
protocol development. The important factor to take 
into consideration here is whether the project team has 
publicly released a project roadmap with a clear path to 
decentralization, and if the team has followed its roadmap. 3.3.2 Decentralized applications At the application layer, in most cases, development 
activities are managed by a combination of community 
decentralized autonomous organizations (DAOs) and core 
developer teams. DAOs typically set community funds 
aside for this purpose from the token generation event to 
compensate their developers. In addition, DAOs often fund 
further protocol development and community engagement 
through grant programs or liquidity incentives.16 On-chain 
DAO governance proposals can be used to implement 
protocol changes as needed.

DAOs give token holders 
varying degrees of governance rights to vote on and 
implement changes executed by a governance smart 
contract. To subsidize community involvement similar to a project 
manager or product developer, DAOs may offer monetary 
incentives in a consulting-like capacity for those in the 
community engaging with the protocol developers. Outsourcing certain roles to the community, especially 
when the community owns the governance tokens, can be 
an important way for DAOs to develop new products that 
fit the community’s needs. Therefore, for both paying its 
employees and the community, a sizable cash runway is 
near mandatory for protocol longevity until it may be self-
sustaining based on positive cash flow. Bull markets tend to coincide with significant speculation 
on governance token prices, which are another medium 
for DAOs to incentivize participation from the community.  Though impossible to foretell, token price can serve as 
a barometer for the marginal new user or speculator in 
a reflexive manner. Token incentives for the more 
speculative may be an attractor for greater development 
and community engagement, but not to such a degree 
that token supply is concentrated in a small number of 
insiders’ wallets. 

While governance may appear to be decentralized and 
effective for certain decentralized applications and 
communities, patterns of behavior would suggest that 
governance is as robust as the core team’s credibility 
and track record. Naturally, when a community believes 
it passed a vote, one must consider whether the core 
members, who often hold the authority to enforce that 
vote, will follow through with the action.  4. Financial
Financial analysis is a core component when considering 
the viability of a token. As with any currency, in-game 
item or revenue-generating entity , a protocol’s token 
must provide a reasonable inflation or deflation rate, 
utility in some way, and some sort of value capture. Tokenomics are the economics of the token, and the 
concept generally encompasses token supply, emissions 
schedule, distribution, lockups, vesting, staking rewards 
and other incentives, including burning, vote locking and 
more.17 As tokenomics are based on a combination of 
the preceding factors , they naturally can come in many 
combinations that can significantly impact the token’s 
price over the medium to long term. 

In addition to tokenomics, a token can be evaluated based 
on a few key metrics, such as market cap, fully diluted 
value (FDV), circulating supply, revenue per token and 
TVL. Using these metrics to perform ratio analyses, 
such as FDV to TVL, can create a benchmark KPI to cut 
through the token supply and evaluate a protocol on the 
9
Token due diligence: a structured approach to evaluate digital asset risk
economic activity and utility supporting its valuation.  When considering TVL, however, it is important to consider 
whether there is a corresponding burn, buyback or profit 
distribution from the TVL. Uniswap, for example, has a 
high TVL, but all “revenues” flow back to liquidity providers 
rather than anyone holding the UNI token.
4.1 Tokenomics
4.1.1 Layer-1 protocols
L1 blockchains have varying degrees of tokenomic design 
mechanisms. For example, a proof of work chain, such 
as bitcoin (BTC), rewards miners 6.25 BTC plus fees per 
block mined as of October 2022.18 Miners compete to 
solve the nonce per varying algorithmic difficulties, and 
the winner has the right to propose the next block on 
the longest chain.

Bitcoin has a hard cap of 21 million 
coins and reduces block rewards about every four years 
until the hard cap is reached in 2140. Other L1 chains, 
such as Ethereum proof of stake, reward validators for 
participating in consensus by attesting to the validity of 
a block (enforcing the fork choice rule) and proposing 
blocks.19 While Ethereum does not have a hard cap in total 
token supply, the transition to proof of stake combined 
with EIP–1559 has resulted in ETH becoming a deflationary 
asset as more ETH is burned per transaction than issued.20 
From the perspective of risk and protocol viability, a token 
holder should not exclusively interpret whether an asset 
is net inflationary or deflationary as positive or negative; 
rather, the token holder should assess the mechanisms 
that are used to achieve either status, such as token burns 
from revenue or the impact of inflation on trading order 
books. For example, if ETH reduced its inflation rate by 
90%, from about 4% to about 0.4%, all else equal, there 
is 90%, less daily sell pressure due to inflation reduction.

Further, the transition from proof of work to proof of stake 
reduced mandatory sell pressure, as fiat-based mining 
costs covered via ETH sales are no longer required.  L1 protocols can also use experimental economic design 
mechanisms as part of their tokenomics. Terra was 
unique in that an algorithmic stablecoin was embedded 
into the protocol design. The native cryptocurrency, 
Luna, was designed to algorithmically back the stablecoin 
US Terra (UST). To mint UST, an equal amount of Luna would be burned.21 One UST could always be minted for 
$1 worth of Luna, making arbitrageurs profitable as this 
incentivized peg maintenance of UST to $1. This protocol 
design proved to be catastrophic. Terra collapsed under 
a reflexive negative spiral as UST holders lost faith and 
sold UST either for other stablecoins or minted Luna to 
later sell, causing other more-leveraged Luna traders to 
sell via forced liquidations. In essence, the market cap of 
Luna (along with an accrued treasury or retained earnings) 
should have always been greater than the value of UST 
to backstop the peg, which is difficult for a free-floating 
and highly volatile cryptocurrency.

In the aftermath, it 
was clear that the asset/liability mismatch was not well 
understood by most participants in the crypto community. 4.1.2 Decentralized autonomous organizations (DAOs)
DAOs provide a vastly different value profile than an L1 
blockchain. Whereas L1 blockchains give users a storage 
and computation engine, DAOs can deliver any form of 
value to their users, including gaming, DeFi, art and more. L1 blockchains often have a more visible and endogenous 
revenue capture model as well, allowing fees that users 
pay to the network to flow to the computers that execute 
transactions and agree on the latest state. DAO tokens, on 
the other hand, may appear more related to community 
memberships or decentralized business entities and need 
to exhibit utility and revenue capture. When it comes to 
utility, the choices are manifold. As examples, some DAOs 
may require the token to enter its game, to own the token 
to provide first-loss capital in lending or insurance to earn 
fees or more token supply, or to simply vote on where DAO 
treasury money may be spent to grow the community.

In 
many circumstances, there may be value for an individual 
to own the token, but tangible value on a market level may 
not be present.  10
Token due diligence: a structured approach to evaluate digital asset risk
As such, in 2022, most governance tokens were down 
more than 90% and continue to have major dilutive 
issuance with low floating supply and high FDVs. Figure 
4 exemplifies Solana ecosystem tokens that are widely 
reported to have low-circulating supply and high inflation. And further, it can be difficult for DAOs to gain tangible 
value due to prevailing securities laws, where venture 
capital may be less likely to fund a DAO that distributes 
earnings to its token holders due to difficulty in providing 
clarity that the token is not a security. To work around cash 
flow distribution, some communities have voted on “token 4.2 Financial metrics and ratio analyses
4.2.1 Layer-1 protocols
L1 protocols may have a more universal model, at least 
for monolithic chains, than other tokens. For L1s, revenue 
is produced when users transact on the platform and 
pay fees. Fees may be in computation, storage, verifying 
proofs, verifying data availability or any combination.

For modular chains, the greater the usage volume, the 
greater the revenue, all other things being equal. Where 
fees flow is arguably even more important, which dictates 
who receives fees and inflation on the protocol. Some L1s 
may distribute all fees to stakers, whereas some may take 
a percentage for their own treasury in a more for-profit 
manner. The relation between fees and inflation is also a 
buybacks and burns” to buy existing supply and then burn 
it in an attempt to boost price. When researching DAOs, 
users should understand how total supply will change 
over time and how the DAO generates revenues to fund 
operations and token purchases. While there are a variety 
of different supply models, such as vote-escrowed and 
protocol-owned liquidity, it is possible those mechanisms 
provide more volatility due to lower-circulating supply 
rather than tangible underlying value, despite arguments 
suggesting that higher vote weight (and thus inflation 
weight) is beneficial for all token holders.  strong indicator of user adoption, usage and demand for 
blockspace.

For example, a protocol with 100% inflation 
and 1% fees (as a percentage of market cap) has a far 
different market dynamic than a protocol with 0% inflation 
and 4% fees, all else equal. When considering financial 
metrics and ratios, protocol revenue (R), market cap to 
revenue (MC/R), stock to flow (S2F) and staking yield 
are helpful metrics. Because stakers tend to receive all 
fees and inflation, any non-staker will be debased due 
to inflation and will have an opportunity cost in fees and 
inflation forgone. Therefore, the marginal staker will 
receive their share of the total market cap multiplied by 
inflation and fees as a percentage of market cap.  11
Figure 4: Solana ecosystem tokens
Sources: CoinGecko, DefiLlama. Data as of 17 November 2022.  Asset
Price
Market cap

(in millions)
FDV 
(in millions)
Market 
cap/FDV
TVL 
(in millions)
FDV/TVL
ATH
% of ATH
Cash flow to 
holders Y/N
SOL
$13.41
$4,882 
(no max supply)
$4,882 
(no max supply)
100%
$312
15.6
$259.6
-94.8%
Y
MNGO
$0.01
$26
$71
23%
HACKED
HACKED
$0.5
-97.2%
N
SRM
$0.27
$100
$2,761
4%
$1
2,761.0
$13.8
-98.0%
Y
RAY
$0.19
$29
$105
28%
$50
2.1
$16.8
-98.9%
Y
TULIP
$1.30
$2
$12
16%
$23
0.5
$50.2
-97.4%
N
SLND
$0.41
$12
$42
29%
$30
1.4
$16.7
-97.5%
N
SBR
$0.001
$2
$13
12%
$25
0.5
$1.0
-99.9%
N
Token due diligence: a structured approach to evaluate digital asset risk
Example: User X holds Token Y at $1b market cap and 
holds 50% of all stake, 10% is staked, and there is 5% 
inflation + fees. User X holds $1b * 10% * 50% = $50m 
of Token Y. User X’s $50m stake is entitled to $1b * 5% 
inflation + fees * 50% stake = $25m, or a 50% annual 
return from inflation and fees. Other financial metrics may include TVL to market cap, 
total transactions and transaction volume.

However, 
there is not a direct link between any of those and yield 
for stakers across protocols. One protocol may have low 
transactions but high fee value; some high transaction- 
volume protocols may have negligible fees and may not 
even flow in full to stakers. Hence, each L1 protocol should 
warrant its own analysis, but consideration should be given 
on how to accrue protocol revenue and the breakdown 
between fees and inflation. 
4.2.2 Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAOs) DAOs may generate revenue when users interact with their 
smart contracts, in-game items and more. It is entirely 
DAO dependent, but each respective subsector (DeFi, 
gaming, art) tends to have its own drivers. For DeFi, TVL 
tends to be a strong correlative metric, but only if the TVL 
has a percentage of either TVL or yield that flows back to 
the token holder or token-guided treasury. For gaming, 
it could be a blend of active users, revenue from in-game 
activities, whether the DAO made a blockchain, whether a 
DAO has a treasury earning yield, and whether there are 
in-game advertisements. Art can be similar but relies more 
on primary issuance of new non-fungible tokens (NFTs) and 
royalty fees from secondary market volume.

There may be 
partnerships with metaverses or games as well. In addition, 
total supply, especially floating supply to total, is key for 
assessing the dilutive path of token issuance over time. For 
DAOs, how revenue is generated; where it flows; and the 
underlying sustainability of its userbase, fees and supply 
are of utmost importance.  5. Legal and compliance
5.1 Securities analysis
Is it a security? This is a question that has been repeated 
ad nauseum since cryptocurrencies hit the mainstream and 
one that has yet to be sufficiently resolved. In 2018, then 
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Chairman 
Jay Clayton provided some clarity to this question by 
drawing a distinction between cryptocurrencies that seek 
to replace sovereign currencies and those that represent 
an investment in a common enterprise: 22 the former not 
being considered a security and the latter being considered 
a security. This characterization drew a direct connection 
to the Howey Test, which is the pre-eminent framework 
for assessing whether an asset constitutes a security as 
defined in the US Securities Act of 1933.

Even though 
much has changed since 2018, applying the Howey Test 
is still the main way to assess all different types of digital 
assets from a securities perspective. However, there is 
increasing pushback from major crypto players that the 
Howey Test, as it is currently defined, is not nuanced 
enough to account for factors such as decentralization 
with regard to definitions such as “common enterprise.” In general, though, a broad application of the Howey 
Test can be considered as a tool for providing baseline 
considerations when attempting to determine whether a 
cryptocurrency should be classified as a security. Forman, 421 U.S. at 853, states that “… holding that 
a security does not exist ‘where [a consumer] purchases 
a commodity for personal consumption or living quarters 
for personal use.’”  These distinctions, while subtle, begin to draw a line 
around what type of tokens are more like securities than 
others.

For example, tokens such as ETH (at this time, not 
considered a security by the SEC) that aim to act as a store 
of value, medium of exchange, unit of account, provider 
of economic security and metering token for computation 
on Ethereum have practical uses that may transcend 
speculation or expectation of profits for holders. However, 
Gary Gensler, current Chairperson of the SEC, has proven 
to be much more hawkish in his classification of digital 
assets, hinting in public statements this his goal will be to 
treat almost all digital assets, including cryptocurrencies, 
stablecoins and NFTs, like securities. Under his leadership, 
12
Token due diligence: a structured approach to evaluate digital asset risk
13
Token due diligence: a structured approach to evaluate digital asset risk
the SEC has also primarily applied a regulate by 
enforcement strategy rather than rulemaking specific to 
digital assets. This approach appears to be based in part 
on prepared remarks he provided in April 2022, where 
he noted the SEC should remain technology neutral in 
its application of securities law.

Gensler doubled down in 
May of 2023 23 during his keynote speech at the Atlanta 
Financial Markets Conference where he is quoted as saying 
the “rules have been published” insinuating that his SEC’s 
position on securities will not adapt to accommodate 
assets deployed on decentralized networks, but stands 
ready to support crypto natives’ path to compliance under 
the existing regulatory framework. This approach has led 
to a myriad of court cases (the SEC has engaged over 
100 enforcement actions today) that have led to 
conflicting guidance as to how digital assets fit under the 
Howey Test. Most notably, in July of 2023, courts ruled 
in favor of Ripple Labs by affirming that the company 
did not violate securities law by selling its XRP token on 
a public exchange. The judge acknowledged that those 
sales constituted blind bid/ask transactions — a notable 
win for the crypto industry, albeit one that came with 
a large and confusing caveat.

In the same ruling, the 
courts also found that Ripple’s $728.9 million sale of 
XRP to hedge funds and other sophisticated buyers did 
constitute a sale of unregistered securities, the nuance 
being that Ripple’s marketing efforts to these buyers made 
it clear that the “company was pitching a speculative 
value proposition,” one that was dependent on the efforts 
of the company to build and develop the blockchain 
infrastructure that supported the XRP token.24 This 
ruling highlights an important point for both retail and 
institutional investors when assessing legal or regulatory 
compliance risk using the Howey Test; that you must pay 
attention to how cryptocurrencies are marketed. This is 
a prong of the Howey Test that is still very relevant and 
can be used to identify potential red flags. In this era 
of instant communications via social media and other 
communications apps, it is all too common that project 
teams will publicly advertise unrealistic returns predicated 
on future token functionality or systems of value accrual 
that requires further development.

These messages are 
very often amplified and propagated by paid advertisers 
who do not disclose their monetary stake, insiders with 
large pre-sale token allocations, and community members 
all who are reliant on increasing liquidity to actualize 
the profits they have been promised. The result usually 
ending with non-insiders experiencing significant loss as exit liquidity for those who were most vocal about the 
potential for making profits . It is therefore important to 
pay attention to how the project team conducts itself in 
public forums such as social media and other community 
engagement platforms and the size and recipients of 
pre-sale token allocations whether directly through 
token issuance or indirectly through token allocations 
to marketing budgets. It is pragmatic to avoid tokens or 
projects that provide large token allocations to founders 
or consultants or explicitly market outsized returns or 
guarantees of a token’s future value accrual without a clear 
business model and technological roadmap that supports 
the numbers. The old adage of “if it sounds too good to 
be true, it probably is” still rings true in cryptocurrency 
markets.

While regulators in the US still grapple with the regulatory 
question, their counterparts in the European Union have 
been working hard to implement a set of rules for the 
crypto industry. EU regulators established the digital asset 
specific regulation, Markets in Crypto-Assets (MiCA), with 
the intended purpose of creating a unified set of crypto 
rules that can be applied to various crypto assets and 
their related activities and services. The success of this 
regulation could provide a framework for other countries 
to use, which could lead to the export of these rules to 
other jurisdictions.  6. Cybersecurity
6.1 Governance and operational security
Understanding the governance processes and operational 
security hygiene of teams building on and supporting both 
L1 networks and the smart contracts deployed on top of 
them is a critical factor in understanding the risks associated 
with the tokens supported by them. If a bug is exploited or 
hack is successful, it is highly likely that any funds lost are 
completely unrecoverable due to the immutable nature of 
blockchain transactions. There is also no guarantee that 
an exploited code flaw can be successfully remediated in a timely manner .

It is imperative that project teams have 
robust cyber risk management processes when developing 
smart contracts and managing the private keys and 
wallets that control protocol or community funds, as well 
as proper governance procedures to identify and address 
potential vulnerabilities. The complexity of these processes, 
and therefore risk, increases in tandem with the level of 
decentralization introduced into governance processes. Through ongoing distribution of governance tokens, project 
teams incrementally dilute their ability to exercise control 
over the direction of their protocol in favor of decentralized, 
community-driven governance processes. While this 
approach embodies the ethos of cryptocurrencies, it can 
also expose the pitfalls.  Take, for example, the Compound Finance smart contract 
exploit that occurred in October 2021. A malicious actor 
discovered a vulnerability in the Compound Comptroller 
contract, which is the risk management layer of the 
Compound protocol and controls the token market interest 
emissions. The result was that roughly $80 million in excess 
COMP (Compound’s governance token) was incorrectly 
distributed.25 Cybersecurity management frameworks 
would generally classify this as a vulnerability that would 
require immediate patching. However, immediate patching 
was impossible as Compound’s governance processes were 
designed to operate based on a decentralized model.

In 
April 2020, Compound Labs initiated its decentralization 
roadmap by deploying its Governor Bravo smart contract, 
enforcing programmatic governance. This included 
removing any single individual with administrative privileges 
and introducing a time lock feature coded into the smart 
contract itself enforcing automated, programmatic 
governance controls over processes like change 
management. The time lock feature enforced a two-day 
“cooling-off” period for the community to perform any last-
minute diligence on the contract itself and the impact that 
approved changes to the protocol may have.  14 Figure 5: From Compound
2 days
Outcome decided
Voting ends
Voting active
3 days Proposal created
2 days
Token due diligence: a structured approach to evaluate digital asset risk
It should be noted that the Compound protocol does 
include a Pause Guardian function that can be called in 
the event of an emergency exploit, where the authority to 
pause the protocol’s operations is controlled by Compound 
Labs via a multi-sig wallet. However, Compound’s 
Comptroller contract was not managed by this multi-sig 
wallet; thus, the Pause Guardian function could not be 
used to bypass community governance.

Therefore, this 
exploit remained vulnerable for multiple days after it was 
identified due to the same processes that were meant to 
help mitigate these risks. Understanding how governance 
processes work and the extent a project team or other 
centralized entity has administrative control should be 
a key consideration for token holders as it impacts their 
ability to understand and monitor how protocols or project 
teams are actively managing risks attributed to cyber 
incidents. Reviewing and understanding a protocol’s history 
of governance proposals can provide insight into the 
number of exploits, potential attacks and attack remedies. Poor or improperly designed risk management processes, 
particularly related to cybersecurity, can manifest in risk 
events that directly impact a protocol’s long-term viability.  DAOs also present a significant vector for attack, 
particularly when a protocol implements a community-
controlled treasury wallet or general fund. Multi-sig 
wallets are a common practice to help protect funds in 
these types of communal wallets, wallets by distributing 
signing authority to multiple individuals. However, project 
teams or responsible community members are not always 
completely transparent in terms of who has control of the 
signing keys and the level of rigor of their key management 
practices.

It is therefore important to understand both how 
a multi-sig wallet is implemented, who controls those keys, 
and how the keys are stored; a multi-sig wallet is useless 
if the keys themselves are controlled by highly centralized 
actors or stored in an unsecure manner.
7. Auditability 7.1 Auditability and ownership
The degree to which a digital asset’s existence or a 
transaction related to a digital asset can be verified using 
on-chain data should be taken into consideration when 
evaluating risk associated with a cryptocurrency or token.  Transactional data is publicly available, but the average 
user relies on third-party block explorers or APIs to retrieve 
and visualize it, and it should be therefore treated as an 
external source of information that requires additional 
diligence in order to be used as a trusted data source.

At a 
minimum, the completeness and accuracy of data should 
be tested and, if possible, sourced from multiple parties. 
However, if the rigors of a financial statement audit are 
applied to the analyses, then the relevance and reliability 
of information from a blockchain would be a key audit 
consideration and therefore require additional evaluation 
of the source and nature of the data. If blockchain data is 
unavailable and block explorer data is unreliable , this can 
lead to loss of funds; significant operational hurdles; and 
difficulties when reporting to regulators, auditors or other 
third parties and in effectively managing risk. A token holder should be able to very clearly understand 
how ownership is defined within the blockchain network 
on which they are operating. For example, the Cosmos 
blockchain has a native “clawback” functionality that 
allows the issuer of an asset the ability to burn clawback-
enabled assets using an administrative function that 
effectively destroys the asset and removes it from the 
owner’s balance . This is a conscious design decision 
because it helps enable development of SEC-compliant 
assets; however, such a design decision also presents the 
risk of a clandestine and arbitrary confiscation of account 
funds by malicious entities.

Additionally, the token holder 
should understand the rights that are afforded to them 
through token ownership and how those can change based 
on how the token is being used for various DeFi activities, 
such as staking or providing liquidity.
Additionally, the degree of transactional visibility is 
important for token holders to be able to audit existence, 
movement and ownership of digital assets. The data 
necessary to trace transactional-level detail is publicly 
available through a number of network-scanning 
technologies, such as Etherscan, although it is not 
necessarily structured in a user-friendly way. A token 
holder should consider identifying a diverse set of scanning 
technologies, particularly if holding digital assets from a 
lesser-known blockchain or a blockchain that implements 
privacy-preserving technology. Although the existence of 
privacy-enabling technology on blockchains likely increases 
the risk that digital assets are or have been used for illicit 
purposes, it can also impede a token holder’s ability to 
accurately track balances and movement of funds. 15 Token due diligence: a structured approach to evaluate digital asset risk

Lastly, understanding the scope and nature of the 
validation checks performed on transactions by validating 
nodes is a good way to determine whether a network 
has a way to effectively screen potentially malicious 
transactions. At a minimum, look for rules that standardize 
transaction syntax, balance verification, provide digital 
signature validation and do not allow for abnormal or 
unconventional transactions.  8. In summary
The blockchain ecosystem is an incredibly complex mix 
of token holders, technological implementations and 
economic models that can be combined in a seemingly 
endless number of ways. Different types of token holders 
will have different risk appetites based on their use 
case for the asset. Technological blockchain designs 
and implementations are usually driven by operational 
requirements and the desire to solve the blockchain 
trilemma problem and largely have fallen short in this 
regard. This has led to a diverse ecosystem of application-
specific chains with complex token ecosystems built atop, 
creating multilayered risk profiles that are, in most cases, 
completely unique. Understanding how all the layers 
interact and the risk trade-offs that exist as a result are 
nontrivial tasks, even for the crypto savvy.

The pillars of 
risk and the criteria discussed are not exhaustive nor were 
they developed with one particular entity or blockchain 
in mind. Our paper is designed to provide an agnostic framework 
based on components that are very likely to be applicable 
to all blockchains and the tokens that exist within them. The intention is to arm potential token holders, regardless 
of use case, with a guide on where to start and how to 
think about token risk across the entire ecosystem.  The framework cannot predict the performance or 
popularity of a particular token. The framework does 
not weigh the probability of a black swan event or the 
magnitude of its potential impact. However, using the 
framework may help in flagging potential exogenous 
and endogenous risks to protocols and, by affiliation, 
their tokens allowing prospective token holders to better 
understand the risks involved. Therefore, pairing the 
general framework with a technical risk and compliance 
assessment may produce the best results. The framework can be useful for an inclusive set of 
participants, such as institutional investors, sell-side banks 
and dealers, and crypto-native institutions of various types.  9.

How we can help 
Ernst & Young LLP was a first mover in providing services 
to digital asset clients and has developed a cohesive, 
integrated approach to serving this market. We have 
brought together the capabilities of our global blockchain 
technology team with our time-tested solutions to build a 
dedicated digital asset practice for financial services. This 
extends our distinction as the only professional services 
firm with a dedicated financial services practice across 
assurance, tax, strategy and transactions, and consulting 
services, and positions us to help build, connect and 
protect participants in the digital asset ecosystem.  Our experience spans the development of the most 
foundational elements of digital asset strategy to the 
implementation of operating models, technology solutions 
and risk management frameworks. We support both 
traditional finance and digital-native organizations on 
topics ranging from blockchain engineering, technology 
and cybersecurity, to tax, finance, accounting, risk and 
regulatory compliance. On the regulatory front, we 
support clients that are in the early stages of designing 
and developing their products and preparing to engage 
with regulators, through the application process, go-live 
preparation and post-launch as firms go through exams 
and remediation exercises.

Our integrated digital assets team helps to build blockchain 
and digital asset solutions and actively supports clients in 
building a scaled and sustainable ecosystem.
16
Token due diligence: a structured approach to evaluate digital asset risk
17
References
1	
“State of Compound Q1 2022,” Messari website, 
messari.io/report/state-of-compound-q1-2022, 
15 April 2022.  2	
“Quantifying Decentralization,” news.earn.com 
website, news.earn.com/quantifying-decentralization-
e39db233c28e, 27 July 2017.  3	
“Nakamoto Coefficient,” CrossTower website, 
crosstower.com/resources/education/nakamoto-coeffi
cient/?msclkid=16513b38c59611ec807d26d7e083
bb04, accessed January 2023.  4	
“Vitalik Sounds Alarm on Security of Cross-
chain Bridges.” Yahoo Finance website, www.
yahoo.com/video/vitalik-sounds-alarm-security-
cross-120031414.html, 11 January 2022. 5	
“Wormhole Bridge Exploit Incident Analysis,” 
Certik website, www.certik.com/resources/
blog/1kDYgyBcisoD2EqiBpHE5l-wormhole-bridge-
exploit-incident-analysis, 1 August 2022.  6	
“Jump Trading Backstops Wormhole’s $320M Exploit 
Loss,” CoinDesk website, www.coindesk.com/
business/2022/02/03/jump-trading-backstops-
wormholes-320m-exploit-loss-sources, 3 February 
2022.  7	
“Issue #60: Juno Whale,” 30,000 Feet website, 
30000feet.substack.com/p/issue-60-juno-whale, 
20 March 2022.  8	
“What are Smart Contracts?” Blockgeeks website, 
blockgeeks.com/guides/smart-contracts, 19 October 
2022. 
9	
“DeFi dashboard,” DefiLlama website, defillama.com, 
accessed January 2023. 
10	 “Solidity vs Vyper,” QuickNode website, www.
quicknode.com/guides/smart-contract-development/
solidity-vs-vyper, 23 September 2022. 
11	 “What is Solidity Programming Language?” Decrypt 
website, decrypt.co/resources/solidity, 24 January 
2019. 12	 “Solidity Security: Comprehensive list of known attack 
vectors and common anti-patterns,” Sigma Prime 
website, blog.sigmaprime.io/solidity-security.html, 
30 May 2018.

13	 “Compare Crypto Loan Platforms for Borrowing 
Against Crypto 2022,” DeFi Rate website, defirate.
com/borrow, 6 October 2022. 14	 “Crooks steal $182 million from Beanstalk DeFi 
platform,” Cybersecurity World Conference website, 
cybersecurityworldconference.com/2022/04/19/
crooks-steal-182-million-from-beanstalk-defi-platform, 
19 April 2022. 
15 “EIP-1559: Fee market change for ETH 1.0 chain,” 
Ethereum Improvement Proposals website, eips.
ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1559, 13 April 2019.  16	 “Uniswap Grants Program,” Unigrants website, www.
unigrants.org, 2021.
17	 “What is Tokenomics?” Decrypt website, decrypt.co/
resources/tokenomics, 16 January 2019. 18  “Bitcoin Halving,” CoinWarz website, www.coinwarz.
com/mining/bitcoin/halving, accessed January 2023.  19	 “Rewards and Penalties on Ethereum 2.0 [Phase 
0],” Consensys website, consensys.net/blog/codefi/
rewards-and-penalties-on-ethereum-20-phase-0, 
2 March 2020. 
20	 “Ultra sound money,” ultra sound money website, 
ultrasound.money, accessed January 2023. 
21	 “Terra Money: Stability and Adoption,” assets.website-
files.com/611153e7af981472d8da199c/618b02d1
3e938ae1f8ad1e45_Terra_White_paper.pdf, 
April 2019.
22	 “SEC Chairman Jay Clayton: Cryptocurrencies Like 
Bitcoin Are Not Securities,” CNBC, YouTube website, 
www.youtube.com/watch?v=8YtZJRUak8E, 6 June 
2018.
23	 https://decrypt.co/140247/sec-head-gary-gensler-
insists-crypto-rules-are-already-clear.  24 https://www.reuters.com/legal/us-judge-says-
sec-lawsuit-vs-ripple-labs-can-proceed-trial-some-
claims-2023-07-13/.  25  DeFi Money Market Compound Overpays Millions 
in COMP Rewards in Possible Exploit; Founder Says 
$80M at Risk,” CoinDesk website, ADD WEBSITE from 
footnote 25, updated 11 May 2023.

Token due diligence: a structured approach to evaluate digital asset risk
18
Chen Zur
US Blockchain Practice Leader
Ernst & Young LLP
chen.zur@ey.com
Aaron Stafford
Financial Services Digital Asset 
Blockchain Consulting
Ernst & Young LLP
aaron.stafford@ey.com
Michael Gonzales 
Financial Services Digital Assets
Assurance Lead
Ernst & Young LLP
michael.t.gonzales@ey.com
Arwin Holmes
Global Blockchain Chief Technology Officer, 
Americas Consulting Metaverse Leader
Ernst & Young LLP
arwin.holmes@ey.com
Brendan Maher
Financial Services Digital Assets Strategy
Ernst & Young LLP
brendan.maher@ey.com
Mark Nichols
Capital Markets Digital Assets Strategy Lead
Ernst & Young LLP
mark.nichols@ey.com
Kristina Sanger
Financial Services Digital Assets 
FinCrime Leader
Ernst & Young LLP
kristina.sanger@ey.com
Paul MacIntosh
Financial Services Digital Assets Leader
Ernst & Young LLP
paul.macintosh@ey.com
Steve Beattie
Financial Services Digital Assets Risk Leader
Ernst & Young LLP
steven.beattie@ey.com
David Byrd

Blockchain Strategy Leader for Assurance
Ernst & Young LLP
david.byrd@ey.com
Token due diligence: a structured approach to evaluate digital asset risk
Contributors
Authors
Rebecca Carvatt
Banking and Capital Markets 
Digital Assets Consulting Leader
Ernst & Young LLP
rebecca.carvatt@ey.com
Mark Vangeloff
Blockchain Technology Consulting  
Ernst & Young LLP
mark.vangeloff@ey.com
Matt McConnell 
Digital Asset Business Consulting 
Ernst & Young LLP
matthew.mcconnell@ey.com
EY exists to build a better working world, helping to 
create long-term value for clients, people and society 
and build trust in the capital markets. Enabled by data and technology, diverse EY teams in 
over 150 countries provide trust through assurance 
and help clients grow, transform and operate. Working across assurance, consulting, law, strategy, 
tax and transactions, EY teams ask better questions 
to find new answers for the complex issues facing our 
world today.  EY refers to the global organization, and may refer to one or more, of the 
member firms of Ernst & Young Global Limited, each of which is a separate 
legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK company limited by 
guarantee, does not provide services to clients.

Information about how EY 
collects and uses personal data and a description of the rights individuals 
have under data protection legislation are available via ey.com/privacy. EY 
member firms do not practice law where prohibited by local laws. For more 
information about our organization, please visit ey.com.  Ernst & Young LLP is a client-serving member firm of
Ernst & Young Global Limited operating in the US. © 2024 Ernst & Young LLP. All Rights Reserved.
US SCORE no. 22465-241US_2
2401-4417859 ED None  This material has been prepared for general informational purposes only
and is not intended to be relied upon as accounting, tax, legal or other
professional advice. Please refer to your advisors for specific advice. ey.com
EY | Building a better working world