Risk Warning Notice 
 
Co-investors acknowledge that investing in the blockchain technology and administration of a portfolio of 
cryptocurrencies and tokens entails high risks, where risks are understood as occurrence of events that entail 
losses for investors. Existing risks are determined by numerous parameters which cannot always be forecasted 
and changes in which cannot always be controlled. The higher the expected return, the higher are the risks 
intrinsic to investment portfolio management. Co-investors understand and agree that all deals and transactions with assets are carried out by Managing 
Partners without co-investors’ instruction, at own discretion of Managing Partners. Granting the right to make 
transactions with the managed assets to Managing Partners, co-investors are aware that the assets may both 
appreciate or depreciate. Accordingly, co-investors assume all risks relating to the Fund's investments. Co-investors understand and agree that statements by Managing Partners, the Fund's staff, authorized 
representatives or any other parties regarding future asset growth do not give rise to any obligations on the 
Fund's part and can only be construed as suppositions. Co-investors understand that the Fund's performance in the past does not determine the size of its profits 
in the future. Any successful financial outcome for other parties does not guarantee similar outcomes for co-
investors. Co-investors assume risks related to actions of state bodies or trading platforms that regulate Russian and 
international securities market. Co-investors understand and agree that Managing Partners are not able to foresee all potential risks and 
warn co-investors thereof. Co-investors waive any liability on the Managing Partners' part in the event of emergence of such risks 
except when stipulated in the applicable legislation. Co-investors acknowledge receipt of information from Managing Partners regarding operations on the 
markets of cryptocurrency and financial instruments and assume risks, including without limitation, those listed 
below: 
A. General risk — a risk related to social, political, and economic situation in a given country. This risk has no 
specific connection to any investment vehicle. General risk cannot be reasonably influenced or controlled 
by Managing Partners; this risk cannot be reduced or diversified against. This risk is influenced by: 
• 
changes in the political situation; 
• 
possibility of adverse legislative action; 
• 
sharp currency devaluation; 
• 
credit crisis, banking crisis, and currency crisis that develop as a direct or indirect consequence of 
political and legislative risks. According to the Fund's interpretation, among general risks also are 
events of force majeure, primarily those bearing manmade, natural, or geopolitical nature (external 
hostilities).