ICO INVESTING: RISKS
Similarly to conventional venture investing, investing in ICOs can produce returns with high multiples. No other
investment vehicle — lending, stocks, trading, etc. — can generally match the ROI of venture investing that
literally multiplies the capital. Current ICOs demonstrate remarkable performance too, averaging at 30,000% ROI. However, just like any investment, both conventional venture investing and investing in crypto ventures entail
certain risks and have specific aspects, some of which are listed below. A risk to miss out on a solid project because of a growing information overload, contradictory opinions
and project assessments before ICO launch, or simply due to lack of access to quality projects prior to ICO. A risk to draw up a poorly structured deal even if the project is great, lose your capital or a sizable share
Risk of having your assets frozen for a long time. Risk of having to get involved into operations management if the project team is weak. Risk of funding a substandard project and losing the entire investment. Bottom line is that to make smart choices on the crypto market, investors need access to a good selection of
quality projects, proper due diligence, well structured deals, competent capital management and exiting projects
at the right time to secure returns. Venture crypto fund CryptoBazar Fund was established to let investors do
As investors, we have been involved in the InvestBazar since 2013 working on the markets of Russia, the CIS, and
over 40 other countries that have become our subscribers. The InvestBazar Fund, our conventional investment
fund, invests exclusively in SMEs in the real economy and currently manages over $15 mln USD. Over the years,
we have built an extensive partner network spanning Russia, the CIS, and Europe that brings us 1,500–2,000
investment applications per quarter. We have an effective selection system that allows us to identify the best
business projects and teams. Since 2013, we have been hosting open events where the strongest projects can
pitch to private investors of different specializations. In 2017, we launched a crypto division within InvestBazar — CryptoBazar that focuses on three major areas:
a) CryptoBazar ICO Accelerator — online acceleration for projects and preparing ICO launches;
b) CryptoBazar Events — events for promoting and developing the blockchain industry and presenting
upcoming ICOs to investors;
c) CryptoBazar Fund — investing in projects prior to ICO launch. In 2017 we organized a series of CryptoBazar Demo Days and CryptoBazar Exclusives in Russia, Germany, Poland,
Cyprus, Dubai, Monaco, Switzerland, Singapore, Hong Kong and USA. The vision of CryptoBazar for the coming 1.5
years is to create the largest international partner infrastructure that will allow industry players to get access to
the most interesting and forward looking cryptocurrency projects and get an opportunity to invest in these
projects at their earliest stages under the most lucrative terms. A video summary of our events is available at:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v TxY30RjCQZk (Russia)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v sUACvtbT 4g (Russia)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v PGf6zLh1nwQ (Dubai)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v YHGyOQGqtTE (Cyprus)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v DRZk5c9pRo0 (Monaco)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v ePJwAPfdsK4 (New York)
CryptoBazar Fund Managing Partners: Oleg Ivanov, Andrey Yudin, and Stanislav Sukhinin. As the Fund's Managing Partners, we are responsible for:
Making investment decisions;
Ensuring efficient, transparent, and verifiable transactions;
Security and prevention of unforeseen contingencies.