CREATING A NEW CRYPTOCURRENCY
Looking at the traditional economy, it is evident that it is driven by the growing business. In other words, "value"
or "investment growth" is created due to business activity. Invested capital can grow only via business projects
growth. Any other source of growth is merely an intermediary stage in a transaction between the money owner
and the business that generates capital growth. Let's take a couple of common investment cases:
a) Banks receive funds in the form of deposits made by individuals, companies, and other organizations; banks
then make money by lending these funds at a higher rate. Loans are granted mostly to businesses or individuals,
who have to confirm their creditworthiness by proof of employment (ultimately, banks receive money from
businesses in this case too). b) Stock and commodity exchanges facilitate trade in shares, bonds and derivatives issued by companies to fund
growth (again — businesses). Securities can also be emitted by governments; these are paid off against future tax

revenues from companies (business) and individuals who pay personal income tax on money that they earn due
c) Real estate investment. With commercial real estate it is already in the name; businesses pay for rent. Residential housing is paid for out of our income that, yet again, comes from having a job (yes, businesses). That is why the highest profitability on capital within a traditional economy is in business. Other investment
vehicles present some form of trade off with lower ROI, but with higher comfort and risk diversification. Cryptocurrency market is quite similar to a traditional economy in that business projects attract investment and in
return create value and capital growth. As with a traditional business, emission of crypto tokens or coins is just like emission of shares by conventional
companies, except that tokens are traded on crypto exchanges, and their valuation depends on the trajectory of
the project or market developments. As with a traditional economy, businesses may pay you for making a useful contribution to their operation (for
example, an hourly wage or, in case of crypto projects, a reward for mining). Last but not least, as with a traditional business project, when companies do not have access to funding through
issuing shares or bonds (the latter are almost exclusively used to large businesses), startups and SMEs usually turn
to venture funds or crowdfunding / crowdinvesting vehicles for raising capital. Blockchain technology and emergence of cryptocurrencies provide a good opportunity for business projects to
pursue their vision by combining crowdfunding and security market toolkits. Previously, a private investor funding
a venture project had to wait years before the project would break even and start generating profits to pay
investors. Now, investors get an opportunity to receive crypto tokens in return for their funds, and then monitor
the token's appreciation on exchanges and selling these tokens at any desired time, thereby recovering the
investment at a profit. Appealing to both investors and business projects, this idea gave rise to a new vehicle called ICO, or Initial Coin
Offerings, that is, emission of crypto tokens or cryptocurrencies. Business projects come up with uses for their
tokens and offer tokens to private investors in exchange for crypto investment, usually in Bitcoin or Ethereum.