TERMS AND DEFINITIONS
CryptoBazar Token (CBT) — the token of the CryptoBazar Fund in the form of digital code. Pre ICO — a preliminary round of raising capital, which allows projects to use the resulting funds for marketing
and completing project development. Initial Coin Offering (ICO) — the process of issuing tokens. This process generates tokens that can eventually be
used to pay for services on their origin platform; in some cases, tokens can be considered a cryptocurrency. Blockchain — a linear, decentralized chain of transaction blocks. CryptoBazar — a platform that allows projects to attract investment through blockchain and issue
cryptocurrency; and allows investors to get access to strong projects and grow their investments
Managing Partners — individuals responsible for the Fund's investment strategy, project selection and other
matters of administration at the Fund. Resolutions to take on new Partners are passed by unanimous decision of
Co investors — legal entities or individuals who, acting together with the Fund, invest in the projects that have
undergone selection. Project — an investment project that is handled by the Fund, undergoes initial evaluation, extended due
diligence, acceleration, and subsequently receives funding. Deal (entry) — funding of project implementation by buying its tokens. The transaction is made in accordance
with Article 807 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation (Part II) as amended by Federal Law No. 14 FZ of
January 26, 1996 or through signing a SAFT (simple agreement for future tokens) agreement. Deal (exit) — a stage in the investment process when the Fund takes action to recover the invested funds (by
selling tokens) and potentially receive profit as the case may be with the Project. Token — digital code that, depending on the Project type, can be a form of digital currency, give voting rights,
entitle to commission fees, or serve as proof of being a shareholder. Token is defined in a project's white paper. Hurdle rate – CBT price at which the Fund deducted its last performance fee
CryptoBazar Fund — a Fund that carries out screening and extended due diligence on blockchain based projects
(a system based on a distributed database); then the Fund uses its own or raised capital to fund selected projects. The Fund's address: 6/5 Barklaya St, Moscow (Barklay Plaza Business Center, Park Pobedy Metro Station),
Website: www.cryptobazar.io
Contacts: info@cryptobazar.io, +7 499 372 3011
The cryptocurrency market has been growing rapidly over the last two years. Some key developments and trends
that maintain and accelerate this growth include:
Legalization of Bitcoin and Etherium in Japan in April 2017;
Cryptocurrencies are a secure way to withdraw assets from highly volatile local stock markets, including
Higher yields compared to standard financial instruments;

Growing popularity of cryptocurrencies that are used to make payments and hedge against inflation in
developing economies, including Venezuela and Argentina;
Regulation and clear rules are gradually emerging in this sector, which makes it increasingly appealing to a
larger number of investors, ranging from crypto evangelists to private and professional investors. Notably, the bulk of growth is accounted for by alternative cryptocurrencies, or altcoins, whereas the Bitcoin's
share is dwindling. At the same time, the level of cryptocurrency penetration into the financial market is still very
low and the growth potential is enormous.