c) Real estate investment. With commercial real estate it is already in the name; businesses pay for rent. Residential housing is paid for out of our income that, yet again, comes from having a job (yes, businesses). That is why the highest profitability on capital within a traditional economy is in business. Other investment 
vehicles present some form of trade off with lower ROI, but with higher comfort and risk diversification. Cryptocurrency market is quite similar to a traditional economy in that business projects attract investment and in 
return create value and capital growth. - As with a traditional business, emission of crypto-tokens or coins is just like emission of shares by conventional 
companies, except that tokens are traded on crypto-exchanges, and their valuation depends on the trajectory of 
the project or market developments. - As with a traditional economy, businesses may pay you for making a useful contribution to their operation (for 
example, an hourly wage or, in case of crypto-projects, a reward for mining). - Last but not least, as with a traditional business project, when companies do not have access to funding through 
issuing shares or bonds (the latter are almost exclusively used to large businesses), startups and SMEs usually turn 
to venture funds or crowdfunding / crowdinvesting vehicles for raising capital. Blockchain technology and emergence of cryptocurrencies provide a good opportunity for business projects to 
pursue their vision by combining crowdfunding and security market toolkits. Previously, a private investor funding 
a venture project had to wait years before the project would break even and start generating profits to pay 
investors. Now, investors get an opportunity to receive crypto-tokens in return for their funds, and then monitor 
the token's appreciation on exchanges and selling these tokens at any desired time, thereby recovering the 
investment at a profit. Appealing to both investors and business projects, this idea gave rise to a new vehicle called ICO, or Initial Coin 
Offerings, that is, emission of crypto-tokens or cryptocurrencies. Business projects come up with uses for their 
tokens and offer tokens to private investors in exchange for crypto-investment, usually in Bitcoin or Ethereum. The tokens are then listed on crypto-exchanges that facilitate transactions so that tokens can be sold more easily 
than conventional venture investment assets.