Copyright of Slideworks.io
Commercial Due Diligence
Complete PowerPoint template for high quality, comprehensive due
diligence reports and investment theses

Copyright of Slideworks.io
Objectives of this template
The Due Diligence template includes a fully structured due diligence report complete with ready to use slides, as well as
frameworks, tools, real life examples, and best practices to help you:
Create and present a complete commercial due diligence report as part of your larger M&A process
Analyze the target’s financial position and financial statements
Analyze the market attractiveness and dynamics
Discuss and evaluate the commercial attractiveness of the target
Conduct a due diligence of a target company using a best practice hypothesis driven approach, ensuring a holistic assessment of the
attractiveness of the target’s market, strength of the company, and feasibility of business plan
Get inspiration from real life case examples on how other due diligence reports look like
Create an overview of the target’s competitive advantage and market positioning

Copyright of Slideworks.io
The Due Diligence template is a supporting tool for you to use as part of your
Target Identification
2. Organizing for M&A
3. Guiding principles
4. Target screening criteria
1. Post merger strategy and
4. Synergy realization and
detailed integration plans
5. Implementation and
1. Target identification
2. Data collection and
high level assessment
3. Target shortlisting
4. Indicative valuation and
5. Target approval for due
6. Initiation of contact and
1. Due diligence project plan
2. Due diligence hypothesis
framework and approach
3. Commercial, financial,
management, legal and
4. Financial modelling
5. Synergy assessment
6. Summary of strategic
1. Structure of deal
2. Negotiation strategy
3. Signing and closing

Copyright of Slideworks.io
The Due Diligence template focuses on the commercial part of a due diligence

Copyright of Slideworks.io
This template includes everything you need to create your own high
quality, well structured due diligence presentation
Included with this toolkit:
Fully editable slides with best practice
Complete storyline based on proven
and tested due diligence reports
Best practice hands on guide and
Three real life case examples for
inspiration and guidance
Free support from our senior ex
McKinsey, BCG and Bain consultants
Free access to future updates

Copyright of Slideworks.io
The Due Diligence (CDD) template is structured in four main parts
See more details of each section in following pages
Best practice guide on
Structured commercial
due diligence template
Consulting checklist

Copyright of Slideworks.io
Part 1: Get a tried and tested best practice guide on structuring an
effective commercial due diligence presentation

Copyright of Slideworks.io
Part 2: The full commercial due diligence template with structured
sections and multiple versions of slides for you to choose from
89 fully editable template slides in a complete and structured storyline with action titles, ready to use graphs,
suggested formatting and more:

Copyright of Slideworks.io
Commercial pre study of
Sell side investment proposal
Market and competitor analysis
as part of a commercial due
Types of analysis included
Buyer side commercial due
diligence of German based
wholesale and retail chain to
assess potential attractiveness
Target development and position
Qualitative and quantitative market
dynamics and competitive landscape
Possible market expansion strategies
Investment proposal prepared
for Belgian baby equipment
provider to potential buyers
Quantitative and qualitative
Business case with base case
Detailed financial analysis and
Outside in assessment of UK
based consumer foodservice
provider’s market and
competitive landscape
Competitive landscape and target
Quantitative market development
Potential impact on target
Part 3: Three different sanitized case studies to show you what a due
diligence report can look like in real life cases

Copyright of Slideworks.io
Part 4: A helpful checklist and management consulting tips and tricks to
take your presentation to the next level

Copyright of Slideworks.io
In addition, the template includes several fully editable Excel sheets to
support your due diligence, as well as the files from one case example
...and all files from one case example
Ready to use financial templates...

Copyright of Slideworks.io
We want you to be satisfied, so all eligible
templates purchased on Slideworks can be
refunded within 30 days of purchase.
For whatever reason, if you are unhappy
with a template, you can request a refund .
Simply email us at info@slideworks.io and
we will start the process.
Most refunds are returned via the original
Note that we retain the right to only refund a customer’s first
purchase. Please see our terms and conditions for detailed

Copyright of Slideworks.io