See discussions, stats, and author profiles for this publication at: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/237622306
The World of Funds of Funds
Article  in  Investment Management and Financial Innovations · January 2008
CITATIONS
4
READS
2,484
3 authors:
Michael Stein
University of Duisburg-Essen
32 PUBLICATIONS   110 CITATIONS   
SEE PROFILE
Svetlozar Rachev
Texas Tech University
322 PUBLICATIONS   5,153 CITATIONS   
SEE PROFILE
Edward W. Sun
Kedge Business School
65 PUBLICATIONS   1,019 CITATIONS   
SEE PROFILE
All content following this page was uploaded by Edward W. Sun on 24 August 2014.
The user has requested enhancement of the downloaded file.

1 
The World of Funds of Funds 
 
Michael Stein, University of Karlsruhe & Credit Suisse Asset Management* 
Svetlozar T. Rachev, University of Karlsruhe and KIT& University of Santa Barbara** 
Wei Sun, University of Karlsruhe*** 
 
 
 
* Michael Stein: Institute for Statistics and Mathematical Economics, University of 
Karlsruhe, Germany & Credit Suisse Asset Management, Frankfurt, Germany. // 
michael.stein@statistik.uni-karlsruhe.de 
 
** Prof. Svetlozar T. Rachev (Corresponding Author): Institute for Statistics and 
Mathematical Economics, University of Karlsruhe, Germany & Department of Statistics and 
Applied Probability, University of California, Santa Barbara, USA. // Chair of Econometrics, 
Statistics and Mathematical Finance, School of Economics and Business Engineering, 
University of Karlsruhe, Kollegium am Schloss, Bau II, 20.12, R210, Postfach 6980, D-
76128, Karlsruhe, Germany, svetlozar.rachev@statistik.uni-karlsruhe.de, Chief-Scientist, 
FinAnalytica, http://www.finanalytica.com 
 
*** Dr. Wei Sun: Institute for Statistics and Mathematical Economics, University of 
Karlsruhe, Germany. // wei.sun@statistik.uni-karlsruhe.de 
 
 
 
 
 
 

2 
 
Abstract 
In this paper we provide a review of developments in the fund of funds (FoF) 
industry as well as related academic research work. Since the genesis of this sort 
of financial product in the 1960s, huge capital inflows have generated a total of 
US $1,200 billion of worldwide FoF assets under management as of year-end 
2007. Being portfolios built out of other portfolios and assets, FoFs are a special 
type of investments and therefore have distinct advantages and disadvantages in 
comparison with other investment vehicles. When reviewing both the academic 
research related to the unique, or at least distinct, features of FoFs and discussing 
market developments, we address a good number of interesting questions and 
challenges. Specifically, we find that classical methods of research and 
assessment may be insufficient to address these questions in both theoretical and 
quantitative aspects. The need for a distinct treatment of FoFs is even more 
evident when focusing on the dynamic nature of financial market developments 
and increasing global competitiveness. As past research work on FoFs is scarce, 
especially when being compared to the amount of research work on funds, we 
conclude that further investigation of this sort of financial asset is necessary.  
 
Keywords: Fund of Funds, FoF, Hedge Funds, Multi Manager Funds, Fund 
Portfolios 
 
JEL Classifications: 
 
 
 
 

3 
 
1. Introduction 
 
The fund of funds (FoF) concept has its origin in the 1960s, with the industry steadily 
growing since then. A FoF is a fund which invests in other funds and is sometimes referred to 
as a multi-manager fund. There are many different types of FoF. They include fund of hedge 
funds, fund of private equity funds, fund of mutual funds, and fund of real estate funds. With 
FoF as of year-end 2007 having about US $1,200 of assets under management, a closer look 
at the FoF industry is needed and we do so in Section 2 of this paper. In 2007, funds of hedge 
funds received about US $60 billion of net new assets under management, increasing the 
amount of global capital invested in this type of FoF to around US $800 billion.  
Investments in FoF can be advantageous for both retail and institutional investors due 
to the distinct features of this kind of financial product. However, as with any other 
investment product, disadvantages and sources of possible dissatisfaction exist as well.  
One out of several striking advantages of FoF concepts is the possibility for retail investors to 
get access to financial products in which they could not directly invest. Many funds ─ and 
especially hedge funds ─ are not accessible for most private, retail investors due to high 
minimum investments, prohibitive high transaction costs, lack of information or simply 
missing distribution channels.  
With FoFs, retail investors are able to get exposure to sectors, asset classes, markets, 
and products which otherwise would not have been included in their portfolios. Such 
structural aspects, albeit largely differing between countries, markets, and sectors, stem from 
the fact that business ties and related costs are crucial in determining the investment product 
universe. With most FoFs pooling money from large and diverse investor bases, they are able 
to invest in assets that demand high minimum investments or that offer discounts for 
management fees, costs or loads when investing amounts above specified marks. Investing in 
special share classes of funds, which are generally open for all kinds of investors with pre-
defined minimum investments and lower management fees, is another path to cost reduction. 
Because banks and fund management companies generally have their own trading 
infrastructure, accounting, and clearing offices and desks as well as special agreements with 
other market players and counterparties, absolute and relative operational costs also can be 
reduced significantly.  

4 
However, on the con side, the double cost structure of FoFs caused debates in the past 
and is still subject to discussions both in the academic world and among practitioners.  
In addition to these organizational economies of scale, direct contracting between 
financial institutions may impose another beneficial factor when it comes to market access. 
With direct contracts between financial institutions, banks, endowments, management 
companies, and/or advisors, discounts to fund load fees for example may be agreed on, or the 
institution may be able to trade without paying issuance fees. Structural aspects and the 
effects of business ties in the fund industry have been the subject of numerous studies, which 
will be discussed in the fund (of fund) industry review in Section 2. 
Besides constraints at the cost-of-investment side or barriers to entry, retail investors 
face another problem when building portfolios out of a large variety of assets and financial 
products: The problem of information and overview. As the fund industry is offering a huge 
range of products, it is difficult for retail investors to get an overview concerning funds in 
which they are interested. Performing the task of market screening may be both time-
consuming and inefficient. Furthermore, even when having found a pool of investment 
possibilities, selecting the ones which suit the investor’s needs and preferences is a 
challenging task, sometimes even for experienced investors.  
As is the task to define an investment universe, the evaluation task is challenging, 
because based on the respective needs each single investor has, information building with 
respect to the quality of target funds is crucial. This stems from two interrelated facts. First, 
retail investors generally do not have access to sophisticated data systems or information 
systems. Second, even if such sources are at their disposal, retail investors may find it 
difficult to use such information properly.  
Being exposed to some kind of informational blinkers, the only way to remedy may 
be delegating investment decisions. This can happen in various ways, for example with 
investment advisors or wealth managers. Investing in pension funds or insurance plans could 
be a solution, too. However, none of the mentioned forms of investment decision delegation 
is free from shortcomings or disadvantages. Costs have to be incurred in any case, and one is 
always exposed to the classical problems of moral hazard, divergence of interests, 
uncertainty, and, once again, insufficient information. For FoFs, the same holds true of 
course, and one may argue that indirectly paying a FoF manager via management fees may 
result in the same problems as paying directly for investment consultancy or wealth 
management.  

5 
However, the emergence of the industry in recent years and the steady path of growth 
that the branch has found, suggests another view. Seemingly, the FoF industry delivers 
products and investment possibilities that attract retail investors all over the world. If it would 
not pay in the most direct sense of the word, why should people put their money into FoFs? Is 
it the inexistence of better solutions, advertisement effects, or do FoFs really suit retail 
investors that well? These questions have yet to be answered, where attention should be 
drawn on the double cost structure imposed by FoFs and their management fees. This often 
emphasized double fee structure of FoFs is subject to the studies of (Brown et. al., 2004) and 
(Reddy, 2007). 
Many of the problems that retail investors face when making investment decisions do 
not arise for institutional investors in the same manner. As mentioned above, information 
flows are completely different for institutional investors such as pension plans, asset 
managers, wealth managers, endowments, or state-owned investment funds than they are for 
private, retail investors. The same holds true for different cost burdens, resulting from the 
structures discussed above. Reconsidering the decision to choose between types of delegating 
investment decisions, questions concerning the value added by market professionals have to 
be answered.  
Naturally related to management fees and advisor compensation is the question of 
how well the services provided suit the investors. When deciding on the sector, asset class or 
country to invest in, the problem is not only to separate the ones which one wants to be 
exposed to, but to decide on how this can be achieved. Investing in index or basket 
certificates or exchange traded funds (ETFs), for example, are ways to gain exposure to 
specific markets, sectors, countries or strategies. Most index products are very transparent 
when it comes to underlying constituents, have very low management fees, and offer the 
ability to participate directly in the movements of the underlying index. If exposure is gained 
through index or asset tracking products, the investor receives a return profile with zero alpha 
(no excess returns over the benchmark or index) and a beta of one (the returns are exactly 
proportional to the underlying benchmark or index).  
Passively managed ─ or at least benchmark oriented ─ funds are another way to 
participate (almost) one-by-one, although some funds exist, which are marketed as actively 
managed ones, but are merely tracking their benchmark. In contrast to investing in index 
profiles, both retail and institutional investors are demanding excess returns from their 
investments, that is, they expect the managers to outperform their benchmark.  

6 
Finding fund or portfolio managers which seem to possess superior ability to 
outperform the market and thereby keeping track of the imposed costs is also a strain of 
research of its own. Questions that arise when searching for alpha include ─ among many 
others ─  the following: Is past performance due to pure luck or ability? Are the returns 
achieved driven by timing, selectivity, superior strategies or are unobservable factors 
responsible? May the investors expect the past performance to persist over time? As even 
market professionals and academics may struggle to identify winners and losers, the quest for 
alpha is understood as being one of the most challenging. Selection problems, performance 
analyses, and efforts to identify winners and losers are the subject of Section 3. These 
problems arise on both sides of the FoF ─ investors are interested in selecting the best FoFs 
and in turn FoF managers are seeking to invest in the best funds.  
After discussing selectivity and identification problems that arise when deciding on 
investments, we lay out a problem that is very much a special FoF problem. FoF managers 
may choose among a large variety of funds depending on the branch they are investing in. 
Building portfolios out of funds may result in multiple exposures to one and the same asset or 
risk factor. For example, when investing in European real estate equity funds like the 
Henderson Horizon Pan-European Property Equity Fund or the Morgan Stanley European 
Property Fund, one has significant exposure to the shares of Unibail Rodamco, a real estate 
company that makes up more than 10% of the European Public Real Estate Association 
(EPRA) Europe Index. 
One should be careful when selecting related funds in order to avoid the trap of 
ending up with a market-representing portfolio of top-holdings, while at the same time 
incurring higher costs than when investing in the related indices. From this, it should be clear 
that limits to diversification arise not only from the structure of the underlying assets but 
from the paralleling of holdings. Benefits of including additional funds therefore need to be 
weighed against the disadvantageous increased monitoring burden and the diversification 
drain. Of course, this problem is not limited in dimensions, as FoF-Squared (fund of fund of 
funds) structures exist as well, for example when institutions decide between building 
portfolios out of funds or investing in FoFs. We will cover FoF specific portfolio construction 
problems in Section 4. 
2. The Fund (of Funds) Industry 
 
As noted earlier, many different FoF types exist. Although the variety is large and growing, 
hedge FoFs (HFoFs) have attracted the majority of capital invested in FoFs. Hedge Fund 

7 
Research (HFR) reports net new assets of US $9.5 billion, $49.7 billion, and $59.2 billion 
invested in the HFoF industry in 2005, 2006, and 2007, respectively. According to HFR, by 
year-end 2007 assets under management of HFoFs amounted to US $798.6 billion 
worldwide, with the expectation of further growth. Compared with the industry-wide total of 
US $ 1,208 billion of assets under management of FoF as reported by Barclay Group, HFoFs 
represent about two thirds of total FoF global assets under management.  
The large fraction of HFoFs in the industry has a straightforward structural 
interpretation, as one crucial benefit from investing in this type of FoF is the possibility of 
investing in hedge funds at all. Generally, hedge funds are not accessible for most non-
institutional investors except high-net-worth individuals, and by pooling investors’ money the 
HFoFs open the door to this asset class for nearly everybody. Of course, minimum 
investments exist for HFoFs too, but especially when accessing investible hedge fund indices 
those are found to be lower.  
Diversification benefits are another source of attractiveness of all FoFs, especially 
when multiple hedge fund strategies such as Event Driven, Convertible Arbitrage, Distressed 
Securities or Global Macro for example are included in the HFoFs. Large and growing, the 
US $800 billion of worldwide hedge fund assets under management show a wide range of 
investment possibilities. Due to the fact that hedge funds are way less transparent than mutual 
funds and do not have the strong and strict reporting obligations that are imposed on mutual 
funds, the task of selection and identification in the investment process is especially tough 
when building portfolios that consist of or at least contain hedge funds. In this respect, HFoFs 
deliver a precious service to investors by screening the hedge fund market, performing due 
diligence processes, and selecting the most prospective investment possibilities.  
As with any other asset class, the layout of the investment process is crucial to the 
success of the investments made. Following the due diligence process and the manager 
selection, the HFoF asset allocation (bottom-up or top-down approach, diversification 
considerations, expectation building among others) is done, followed by continuously 
monitoring the risks and returns of the investments made. Investment processes’ setup and 
quality are the determining factors for the success or failure of HFoFs. For example, Standard 
& Poor’s defines fund rating criteria that are underlying their decisions such as investment 
culture, due diligence approach, portfolio monitoring systems and controls, operational risk 
assessment, experience of fund management teams, selected managers’ experience, and 
performance success.  

8 
Private equity FoFs (PEFoFs) parallel many features and advantages of HFoFs 
outlined above. These invest in leveraged buyout (LBO) or venture capital (VC) funds and by 
doing so serve as investment channels to otherwise not accessible investment possibilities. 
PiperJaffray, who offers a variety of PEFoFs, published a special report – hereafter referred 
to as (PiperJaffray, 2003) – on this type of FoFs, which describes the distinct features of this 
sort of investment, some of which are explained in the following. 
LBO or VC funds invest directly in companies that are not traded publicly on stock 
exchanges and are not listed. While LBO funds make use of leverage after purchasing part of 
a target company, VC funds typically make serial equity investments without taking debt. Of 
course, both sub-types of private equity try to identify companies that seem to be the most 
promising concerning actual and future returns. Due diligence and subsequent close 
monitoring enhance the possibility of high prospective returns on capital invested. Especially 
LBO funds when taking over whole firms are directing the path of the companies in which 
they are investing. The difference between VC and LBO funds can be roughly seen in the 
maturity of their target companies, with the former commonly investing in young immature 
companies and the latter targeting more mature firms with more or less stable cash flows. 
High capital amounts are demanded to perform this kind of business, and the pooling of 
money by PEFoFs serves as an appropriate way of raising those. 
In addition to the HFoFs and the PEFoFs, which make up most of the industry, many 
other FoF types have emerged in recent years. For example, FoFs that consist of stock funds 
and bond funds provide high diversification benefits due to the opposing movements that the 
fixed income and equity markets naturally take. Investors do not need to shift between bonds 
and stocks; the adjustments are made by the FoF managers, whose timing on the markets is 
crucial to the performance of this type of investment vehicle.  
Sector specific or industry mutual FoFs exist as well, being portfolios that comprise 
investments in a certain sector, country or class of investments. For example, some Real 
Estate FoFs invest in both open-ended real estate funds (which are directly investing property 
funds with a bond-like risk and return profile) and real estate equity funds. Depending on 
their market expectations, the fund management teams can quickly increase their real estate 
equity exposure or stick to the safe-haven directly investing real estate funds.  
Not all FoF are limited to invest solely in other funds. Some have the possibility to 
invest certain fractions of the fund volume in shares of companies, corporate or government 
bonds, certificates or derivatives. While increasing the flexibility and enlarging the 
investment universe of these FoFs, these additional investment possibilities represent both 

9 
opportunities and threats. Consider a fund manager who has a strong bullish view on one 
single company, to which he wants to get more exposure than is possible through the 
underlying fund holdings. By buying ordinary shares or derivatives on that company, the 
fund manager may tweak the exposure to that company to the desired level. Another strategy 
example would be to use derivatives or reverse index trackers to isolate underlying fund 
performances or alpha, or to reduce exposure to certain parts of the underlying funds while 
maintaining the remaining structure. Non-fund investments may therefore be a tool to 
sophisticated FoF strategies, with hedge fund-like strategies then being accessible by 
managers of long-only funds. However, if FoF managers are able to discretionally invest in 
non-fund assets, the FoF concept may loose its stability or the structure that was expected by 
investors. Put another way, the abilities of FoF managers need to be high enough to reap the 
benefits of non-fund investment possibilities.  
Therefore, the skills of the management team are once again the crucial determinant 
of the success of investments. When it comes to performance measuring and attribution, a 
variety of questions and problems arises, such as comparability, factor selection, statistical or 
technical problems, measurement decisions and many more. To address these issues, the next 
section will be devoted to an overview concerning performance analysis and identification 
problems in the fund and fund of fund world. 
 
3. Performance Analysis and Identification Problems in  
Fund (of Funds) Management 
 
This Section highlights the problems of performance analysis, the search for alpha and 
identification problems inherent in FoF business. In doing so, we turn the focus on several 
problems which especially apply to FoF investments.  
When building FoFs, the product management and portfolio management teams are 
confronted with a large set of questions. First, one has to choose how the investment universe 
should be defined. Generally, FoFs are set up as products that focus on a certain industry, a 
country, a sector, or an asset class of financial products. Several possible types of FoFs have 
been discussed in section 1. After the “topic” of the FoF is selected, the next step is whether 
to constrain the investment universe further. For example, if a FoF is bond oriented, the 
question is whether the FoF should be able to invest in bond funds of any kind, or whether 
certain profiles or countries may be excluded or limited.  

10 
In addition, some FoFs are allowed to allocate a certain fraction of their assets under 
management to non-fund investments, such as single stock shares, bonds, derivatives or 
others. As mentioned in the introductory section, this may lead to two opposing outcomes. 
On the one hand, the profile of the FoF could be greatly improved. With FoF managers 
having the ability to (partly) hedge fractions of their investments, to gain or tweak exposures 
to preferred sectors or companies which may be underrepresented in the fund holdings, or to 
circumvent structural and institutional constraints, able managers may perform better than 
they would when being limited to fund-only investment schemes.  
A very actual example is that of real estate company Unibail-Rodamco. The EPRA 
(European Public Real Estate Association) Europe Index, which serves as the benchmark for 
most European real estate equity mutual funds, consists currently (February 2008) of about 
14% of Unibail-Rodamco. As UCITS (Undertakings for the Collective Investment of 
Transferable Securities) regulation limits the single allocation of mutual funds in one 
company to 10% of the fund volume, this has led to all funds underweighting Unibail-
Rodamco relative to the benchmark. If the FoF management team is bullish on Unibail-
Rodamco, they may heal the expected underperformance of their regulated fund holdings by 
investing directly in Unibail-Rodamco shares or derivatives. Another example would be if the 
FoF managers want to pursue a strategy of picking small companies for which they have 
promising information, but which are only small fractions in the target fund holdings due to 
their small role in the benchmark index.  
On the other hand, non-fund investment allowances for FoF managers may lead to 
undesirable effects. If managers take the wrong steps and have a large amount of 
discretionary freedom, they may dis-stabilize the FoF and introduce performance flaws. Put 
another way, the possibility of non-fund investments is increasing both risk and uncertainty 
concerning future performance from the perspective of FoF shareholders. As the investment 
universe and therefore the allocation possibilities may be exploding due to non-fund 
investments, the investor holding a FoF is confronted with increased problems concerning 
expectation building. Therefore, fund manager ability is the crucial factor dividing pro and 
con of non-fund investment possibilities for FoFs.  
When it comes to ability and performance attribution as well as the identification of 
“better” funds and FoFs, i.e. investments that deliver “alpha”, we are in the favourable 
position of having a huge research work body concerning performance measurement at our 
disposal. While the several studies are differing largely in their very nature, the aim of the 
most is to conduct an analysis that may be useful for selecting funds, i.e. managers. Before 

11 
the various approaches will be discussed and put in relation to the FoF world, some preceding 
arguments are due.  
One important aim of performance analyses and identification in the search for alpha 
should be comparability, that is, when trying to analyse various mangers’ skills and fund 
performances, the study needs to focus on the right factors and benchmarks. The classical 
model of portfolio selection and the single-index model by (Markowitz, 1952 and 1959) as 
well as the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) that has been developed by (Sharpe, 1964) 
and (Lintner, 1965), use simple linear ordinary least squares regressions (OLS). The 
regression is run on the excess return of an asset on its benchmark’s (the market portfolio) 
excess return, with the excess return generally being defined as over a risk-free rate. In these 
models, the higher the intercept that represents the alpha, the higher the risk adjusted return, 
while risk is measured as beta, relative to the benchmark.  
(Fama and French, 1992) in their seminal study augment the analysis with additional 
factors. They introduce two factors in addition to the benchmark or market portfolio, the 
excess return of small capitalisation stocks over large capitalisation stocks (small-minus-big, 
SMB) and the excess return of stocks with high ratios of book-to-market-value over ones 
with low book-to-market-value (high-minus-low, HML). Not representing the end of the 
factor model developments, the (Fama and French, 1992 and 1993) model had an invention 
by (Carhart, 1997), who introduced the momentum of one-year stock returns as an additional 
characteristic component, after (Jegadeesh and Titman, 1993) having proposed the 
momentum factor. The resulting four-factor model has been used extensively in the past and 
builds the baseline for many studies on performance analysis. The initial work on portfolio 
theory and benchmark-oriented performance measurement has triggered a lot of following 
research work, such as the arbitrage pricing theory by (Ross, 1976), an alternative to the 
CAPM. 
Before discussing the nature of performance analyses for selection processes, a few 
technical facts concerning the use of alpha and beta as a measure of superior fund (manager) 
quality are noteworthy. As alpha is simply the intercept of an OLS regression, it tells the 
analyst about the (excess) return that a fund would achieve if all the explaining factors (for 
example the SMB excess return) were set to zero. It is understood that the intercept is 
somehow a bin for all non-random effects not caught up by the explaining factors and 
therefore may be the result of a large variety of effects, not only representing the superior 
ability of a funds’ manager. When it comes to beta, used as a measure of fund exposure to the 
explaining factors, the use of linear regression analyses may be inappropriate especially when 

12 
analysing funds that show highly non-linear dependencies, for example hedge funds and 
other vehicles that are subject to option-like payoff structures. However, the non-linear 
effects may be included even in linear regression analyses when using respective explaining 
factors. 
Not criticizing the use of the four-factor model or related setups, we stress that the 
four-factor model is not suitable for all kinds of performance analyses, especially when 
constructing FoF portfolios. For example, if the universe of the funds under review is not 
restricted very much, that is, if fund managers may have invested in a large variety of stocks 
(for example a country oriented mutual fund), the four-factor model lets conclude about the 
source of performance. Nevertheless, the alpha, the regressions’ intercept, is not measuring 
the ability of the fund manager.  
An intuitive example: A fraction of fund managers in a study sample overweighs 
small caps against large caps stronger than other fund managers. In a year where small caps 
subsequently perform better than their blue chip counterparts, the higher returns of the small 
cap biased funds are a result of their superior ability to forecast the small cap outperformance. 
In the four-factor model, this ability is not identified as ability, but is “soaked up” by the 
SML term in the regression, leaving an alpha that neglects the good decision made by the 
fund managers overweighing small caps. If the aim of the study is to identify where the 
performance comes from, this is a favourable effect, if the study was to compare fund 
managers in a selection process, it is not. This problem is crucial to any performance analysis 
in the fund universe and calls for sensible selection of the factors in relation to which 
information is to be obtained, thereby carefully interpreting the results obtained.  
Especially when analysing funds in a FoF portfolio building process, the caveats of 
simply picking high Carhart-alpha funds are clear-cut. As FoFs should be well diversified 
portfolios build out of the most promising target funds, the misleading effects discussed 
above may introduce biases that lead to significant deviations from this goal. In the 
mentioned example, one would be underweighting funds that successfully chose the right 
strategy, possibly harming future performance. Therefore, it is key to use factor models such 
as the (Carhart, 1997) model in the right way. If the FoF management team is aiming at 
identifying the strategy or sector relations of target funds, the factor models may suit them 
well, for example when aiming at including a heterogeneous set of target funds. If they want 
to identify the ones that made the right investment decisions, they should change the 
respective view.  

13 
In the fund selection process for a FoF, we propose a multi-step use of the (Carhart, 
1997) model or similar factor models. First, the model should be used to identify by which of 
the observable and identifiable factors or characteristics a fund’s performance was driven, on 
a very aggregated level, for example indeed with the four factors proposed by the (Carhart, 
1997) model. Second, from the initial analysis, separate classes are built for which the 
analysis is re-run, yielding a more reliable picture of the underlying funds’ quality. In the re-
run(s), the factors may be adjusted in relation to the class characteristics. For example after 
separating the small cap-benefited funds, one could introduce further more dis-aggregated 
sector benchmarks such as the S&P Technology or the Wilshire Micro Caps. Obviously, the 
use of the multi-step procedure may better suit FoF selection processes due to the possibility 
of both finding different characteristic classes of funds and finding the ones which are the 
best performers in the respective classes. How deep the analyses are conducted, and in which 
order the analyses are performed, depends on the respective needs and the structures of the 
target funds under consideration. 
The arguments proposing a multi-step approach to fund selection are broadly in line 
with (Daniel et. al., 1997), who favour characteristic benchmark portfolio models over the 
four- factor model by (Carhart, 1997). However, even when using the proposed multi-step 
analysis or benchmark portfolio building processes, the analyst may struggle to identify the 
funds which steadily perform in the way that is found in the analysis.  
As for any other investor, the search for performance persistence and the 
interpretation of past fund returns (and the projection of those into the future) is an important 
task in the FoF portfolio building process. Besides the problems discussed above, one has to 
take the analysis from the cross-section to the intertemporal dimension. Work on this subject 
goes back to (Jensen, 1969) and (Beebower and Bergstrom, 1977), and it were (Grinblatt and 
Titman, 1989a, 1989b, 1992), (Brown and Goetzmann, 1995), (Hendricks et.al., 1993), 
(Malkiel, 1995), (Elton et. al., 1996), (Daniel et. al., 1997) and (Carhart, 1997) heavily 
influencing the work on performance persistence. The issue of survivorship bias in 
performance persistence studies is an often discussed problem, as are the problems of short-
history samples and non-normally distributed alphas across the funds. The latter two 
problems have led to the use of Bayesian and bootstrap methods, see (Pastor and Stambaugh, 
2002a and 2002b) and (Kosowski et. al., 2006 and 2007) among others. 
Concerning FoF performance, (Rachlin and Castro, 2007) discuss hedge fund 
performance measuring for FoF managers and on the FoF layer, (Chiang et. al., 2008) 
investigate the performance of real estate mutual FoFs.  

14 
As all of the studies above are related to analysing the performance of funds and/or 
assets, the question being addressed is how to identify winners and losers, and to identify 
which of them tend to be of the same type in the future. Following the performance analysis 
and identification problem, the process of fund of fund portfolio building necessitates an 
appropriate selection process in the task of picking the respective funds to include in the 
portfolio. This leads to a discussion of the problems concerning portfolio optimization and is 
covered in the next section.  
4. Building Fund of Funds 
 
When constructing portfolios of funds, it is critical to consider both the nature of any fund, as 
well as the common factors driving them. Diversification benefits stemming from low or 
even negative relationships among assets are important for the expected risk and return 
structure of the resulting portfolio. Since the seminal work of (Markowitz, 1952 and 1959), 
this topic has been among the most researched and discussed by both academics and 
practitioners, see (Steinbach, 2001) for an overview on mean-variance optimization. 
(Black and Litterman, 1990 and 1992) have developed a framework that lets the 
investor include his subjective views, a setup being more robust to estimation errors. 
Extensions to the Black-Litterman approach have been made by (Giacometti et. al., 2007) 
who use stable distributions and therefore propose models that do not suffer from the 
shortcomings caused by the normality assumption of the classical models. The use of stable 
Paretian distributions in financial and portfolio modelling has been studied in detail by 
(Mittnik and Rachev, 1993 and  Rachev and Mittnik , 2000), (Samorodnitsky and Taqqu, 
1994), (Rachev and Han, 2000), and (Ortobelli et. al., 2002 and 2003). 
When it comes to FoFs, a few words concerning the distinctiveness of FoF portfolio 
optimization are due. In the FoF building process, one often has to choose one or several 
funds out of a family of funds with very similar exposures and/or strategies. This introduces 
the possibility of very high correlations among underlying funds, stemming from the fact that 
those may be invested in the same companies, assets, sectors or markets. It is therefore 
crucial to identify the holding structures or risk factors of target funds, as well as common 
factors that are influential to the funds’ performances. Only by doing so does the FoF 
management team avoid the risk of unnecessary and inefficient double or multiple exposures 
to the same companies, assets, sectors or markets. This may be done by either running factor 
analyses on the funds’ data or by investigating the reports of funds and/or taking into account 
information available on them. If the unique and common features of the respective funds are 

15 
found and a set of funds in which the FoF management wants to invest is defined, the 
question remains how the FoF portfolio will be build. Thereby, it is not possible to build a 
FoF by viewing any target fund as a single asset. 
Using an appropriate risk measure is crucial for FoF portfolio building, with 
(Goodworth and Jones, 2007) focussing on non-parametric risk measurement for hedge funds 
and FoFs, and (Christie, 2007) using downside leverage and event risk measures in FoFs. For 
a general discussion of risk measures, see (Rachev et. al., 2008).   
As is the choice of the appropriate risk measure far from trivial, so is its interpretation, 
especially when being applied for optimizing a FoF portfolio. When viewing any target fund 
as a single asset, one ignores the possibility that the risk that is included in one fund may also 
be included in other funds. 
Related to this problem is the issue of choosing not only which funds or what kinds of 
funds to include in a FoF, but also how many. The question is whether including additional 
funds really helps in diversifying the portfolio and thereby not averaging or counter-investing 
away the characteristics of the target funds. Among others, (Connelly, 1997), (O’Neal, 1997), 
(Park and Staum, 1998), (Saraoglu and Detzler, 2002), (Brands and Gallagher, 2005), 
(Louton and Saraoglu, 2006), (Amo et. al., 2007) and (Kooli, 2007) discuss the problem of 
FoF portfolio building. Especially the (Connelly, 1997) paper hits the point with the 
discussion surrounding so-called unintended indexing, which means that by choosing too 
many funds, one could end up with a costly index type investment portfolio. This does not 
only come from the fact that especially many mutual funds label themselves as being actively 
managed and thereby only slightly over- or underweight their holdings relative to their 
benchmark. (Connelly, 1997), in citing a speech of William E. Jacques at the Institute for 
International Research sponsored conference of Active vs. Passive Investment Management 
argues that mixing for example a growth fund with a value fund counters the investment 
strategies, thereby increasing the portfolio holdings deadweight.  
With all the problems introduced in the preceding discussion, it is clear that FoF 
portfolio building is by no means a trivial or at least easy task. While only a few studies on 
fund portfolios exist, the literature did not yet provide a concluding answer on the questions 
raised, leaving open the door for further investigations and insights. 
 
5. Conclusion and Outlook 

16 
Being a large and growing part of worldwide financial investment possibilities, funds of 
funds are increasingly in the focus of both practitioners and academic researchers. We lined 
out some specific features, (dis) advantages, developments, questions and problems that are 
special to FoFs. By doing so, we reviewed past research work in both the FoF world as well 
as in the field of funds as the natural FoF underlyings.  
Among the most crucial questions and challenges that we found are the following; 
FoFs are very diverse according to their investment universe and need to be treated 
accordingly; the fees charged by FoFs have initiated the discussion of the double-cost fee 
structure; fund portfolios have to be build by taking into account that the target funds may not 
be seen a single assets.  
With these problems and many more still being unresolved, we stress the importance 
that FoF research needs to be done with tools that are sensible in light of the special nature of 
fund portfolios. Identifying the nature, risk factors and exposures of the target funds, thereby 
assessing their similarities and differences, needs sophisticated and sensible approaches and 
techniques.  
Especially when it comes to non-linear (inter)dependencies and relationships, 
classical measures and methods may not be sufficient to perform the needed analyses. 
Copulas, simulation models and other inventions may be needed to identify the factors that 
are crucial in FoF management. Of course, the obtained results need to be used with other 
information from the due diligence and compliance assessment processes.  
When building portfolios out of funds, it is clear that one cannot rely on the classical 
models with an assumed normal distribution. As both the most target funds as well as their 
investments exhibit non-normally distributed returns, we propose the use of stable 
distributions in the portfolio building process for FoFs. Furthermore, the fact that several 
target funds may be influenced by the same factors calls for methods that detect multiple 
exposures or holdings.    
Concluding, we stress that it is especially the need for measuring (inter) dependencies 
and diversification possibilities between target funds as well as the use of modelling the 
target funds returns in the appropriate way that should drive future fund and FoF research. 

17 
References 
 
Amo, A.-V., H. Harasty, P. Hillion. Diversification Benefits of Funds of Hedge Funds: 
Identifying the Optimal Number of Hedge Funds // Journal of Alternative Investments, 
2007. - №10. - pp. 10-22. 
Beebower, G.L., G.L. Bergstrom. A Performance Analysis of Pension and Profit-Sharing 
Portfolios: 1966-1975 // Financial Analysts Journal, 1977. - №33. - pp. 31-42. 
Black, F., R. Litterman. Asset Allocation: Combining Investor Views With Market 
Equilibrium - Goldman Sachs Fixed Income Research, 1990.   
Black, F., R. Litterman. Global Portfolio Optimization // Financial Analyst Journal, 1992. - 
№48. -, pp. 28-43. 
Brands, S., D.R. Gallagher. Portfolio Selection, Diversification and Fund-of-Funds: A Note // 
Accounting & Finance, 2005. - №45. -, pp. 185-197. 
Brown, S., W. Goetzmann. Performance Persistence // Journal of Finance, 1995. - №50. - pp. 
679-698.  
Brown, S.J., W.N. Goetzmann, B. Liang. Fees on Fees in Funds of Funds // Journal of 
Investment Management, 2004. - №2. - pp. 39-56. 
Carhart, M.M. On Persistence in Mutual Fund Performance // Journal of Finance, 1997. - 
№52. - pp. 57-82. 
Chiang, K.C.H., K. Kozhevnikov, M.-L. Lee, C.H. Wisen. Further Evidence on the 
Performance of Funds of Funds: The Case of Real Estate Mutual Funds // Real Estate 
Economics, 2008. - №36. - pp. 47-61. 
Christie, S. Downside Leverage and Event Risk in Fund of Funds Portfolios // Journal of 
Alternative Investments, 2007. - №10. - pp. 68-75. 
Connelly, T.J. Multi-Fund Diversification Issues // Journal of Financial Planning, 1997. - 
№10. - pp. 34-37. 
Daniel, K., M. Grinblatt, S. Titman, R. Wermers. Measuring Mutual Fund Performance with 
Characteristic-Based Benchmarks // Journal of Finance, 1997. - №52. - pp. 1035–1058. 
Elton, E.J., M.J. Gruber, C.R. Blake. The Persistence of Risk-Adjusted Mutual Fund 
Performance // Journal of Business, 1996. - №69. - pp. 133–157. 
Fama, E.F., K.R. French. The Cross-Section of Expected Stock Returns // Journal of Finance, 
1992. - №47. - pp. 427-465. 
Fama, E.F., K.R. French. Common Risk Factors in the Returns on Stocks and Bonds // 
Journal of Financial Economics, 1993. - №33. - pp. 3-56. 

18 
Giacometti, R., M. Bertocchi, S.T. Rachev, F.J. Fabozzi. Stable Distributions in the Black-
Litterman Approach to Asset Allocation // Quantitative Finance, 2007. - №7. - pp. 423-
433. 
Goodworth, T.R.J., C.M. Jones. Factor-Based, Non-Parametric Risk Measurement 
Framework for Hedge Funds and Fund-of-Funds // European Journal of Finance, 2007. 
- №13. - pp. 645-655. 
Gregoriou, G.N., R. Christopherson. Corporate Governance of Hedge Funds // Derivatives 
Use, Trading & Regulation, 2005. - №10. - pp. 331-337. 
Grinblatt, M., S. Titman. a). Mutual Fund Performance: An Analysis of Quarterly Portfolio 
Holdings // Journal of Business, 1989, - №62. - pp. 393-416. 
Grinblatt, M., S. Titman. b). Portfolio Performance Evaluation: Old Issues and New Insights 
// Review of Financial Studies, 1989. - №2. - pp. 393-421. 
Grinblatt, M., S. Titman. The Persistence of Mutual Fund Performance // Journal of Finance, 
1992. - №47. - pp. 1977-1984. 
Hendricks, D., J. Patel, R. Zeckhauser. Hot Hands in Mutual Funds: Short-Run Persistence of 
Relative Performance 1974-1988 // Journal of Finance, 1993. - №48. - pp. 93-130. 
Jegadeesh, N, S. Titman. Returns to Buying Winners and Selling Losers: Implications for 
Stock Market Efficiency // Journal of Finance, 1993. - №48. - pp. 65-91. 
Jensen, M. Risk, the Pricing of Capital Assets, and the Evaluation of Investment Portfolios // 
Journal of Business, 1969. - №42. - pp. 167-247. 
Kooli, M. The Diversification Benefits of Hedge Funds and Funds of Hedge Funds // 
Derivatives Use, Trading & Regulation, 2007. - №12. - pp. 290-300. 
Kosowski, R., A. Timmermann, R. Wermers, H. White. Can Mutual Fund Stars Really Pick 
Stocks? New Evidence from a Bootstrap Analysis // Journal of Finance, 2006. - №61. - 
pp. 2551-2596. 
Kosowski, R., N.Y. Naik, M. Teo. Do Hedge Funds Deliver Alpha? A Bayesian and 
Bootstrap Analysis // Journal of Financial Economics, 2006. - №84. - pp. 229-264. 
Lintner, J. The Valuation of Risk Assets and the Selection of Risky Investments in Stock 
Portfolios and Capital Budgets // Review of Economics and Statistics, 1965. - №47. - 
pp. 13-37. 
Louton, D., H. Saraoglu. Performance Implications of Holding Multiple Mutual Funds with 
the Same Investment Objective // Journal of Investing, 2006. - №15 - pp. 62-78. 
Malkiel, B.G. Returns from Investing in Equity Mutual Funds 1971 to 1991 // Journal of 
Finance, 1995. - №50. - pp. 549-572. 

19 
Markowitz, H.M. Portfolio Selection // Journal of Finance, 1952. - №7. - pp. 77-91. 
Markowitz, H.M. Efficient Diversification of Investments - New York: Wiley, 1959. 
Mittnik S., S.T. Rachev. Modelling Asset Returns with Alternative Stable Distribution // 
Economic Review, 1993. - №12. - pp. 261-330. 
O'Neal, E.S. How Many Mutual Funds Constitute a Diversified Mutual Fund Portfolio? // 
Financial Analysts Journal, 1997.  - March/April - pp. 37-46. 
Ortobelli, S., I. Huber, E. Schwartz. Portfolio Selection with Stable Distributed Returns // 
Mathematical Methods of Operations Research, 2002. - №55 - pp. 265-300. 
Ortobelli, S. I. Huber, S.T. Rachev, E. Schwartz. Portfolio Choice Theory with Non-Gaussian 
Distributed Returns - Handbook of Heavy-Tailed Distributions in Finance, ed. Rachev, 
S.T. - Amsterdam: North Holland Handbooks of Finance, 2003. 
Park, J., J. Staum. Fund of Funds Diversification: How Much is Enough? // Journal of 
Alternative Investments, 1998. - №1. - pp. 39-42. 
Pastor, L., R. Stambaugh. a). Mutual Fund Performance and Seemingly Unrelated Assets // 
Journal of Financial Economics, 2002. - №63. - pp. 315–349. 
Pastor, L., R. Stambaugh. b). Investing in Equity Mutual Funds // Journal of Financial 
Economics, 2002. - № 63. - pp. 351–380. 
PiperJaffray. Alternative Assets- Private Equity Fund of Funds // PiperJaffray Special Report, 
2003. - August -  
Rachev, S.T., S. Han. Portfolio Management with Stable Distributions // Mathematical 
Methods of Operations Research, 2000. - №51. - pp. 341-353. 
Rachev, S., S. Ortobelli, S. Stoyanov, F.J. Fabozzi, and A. Biglova. Desirable Properties of 
an Ideal Risk Measure in Portfolio Theory // International Journal of Theoretical & 
Applied Finance, 2008. - №11. - pp. 19-54. 
Rachev, S.T., Mittnik, S. Stable Models in Finance - New York: Wiley, 2000. 
Rachlin, E., M. Castro. Hedge Funds' Delta Sharpe Score for the Fund of Funds Portfolio 
Manager // Journal of Investing, 2007. - №16. - pp. 83-88. 
Reddy, G., P. Brady, K. Patel. Are Funds of Funds Simply Multi-Strategy Managers with 
Extra Fees? // Journal of Alternative Investments, 2007. - №10. - pp. 49-61. 
Ross, S.A. The Arbitrage Theory of Capital Asset Pricing // Journal of Economic Theory, 
1976. - №13- pp. 341–360. 
Samorodnitsky G., M.S. Taqqu. Stable Non-Gaussian Random Variables - New York: 
Chapman and Hall, 1994. 

20 
Saraoglu, H., M.L. Detzler. A Sensible Mutual Fund Selection Model // Financial Analysts 
Journal, 2002. - №58. - pp. 60-73. 
Sharpe, W.F. Capital Asset Prices: A Theory of Market Equilibrium Under Conditions of 
Risk // Journal of Finance, 1964. - №19.- pp. 425-442. 
Steinbach, M.C. Markowitz Revisited: Mean-Variance Models in Financial Portfolio 
Analysis // SIAM Review, 2001. - №43. - pp. 31-87. 
 
View publication stats

