6th Annual Global 
Crypto Hedge Fund 
Report 
October 2024 

2 
 
Index 
 
I. Introduction .................................................................................................................................. 3 
II. Methodology................................................................................................................................ 4 
III. Key findings................................................................................................................................ 5 
IV. Current landscape ..................................................................................................................... 6 
V. Increasing interest among institutional investors ..................................................................... 10 
VI. Evolving product landscape and the importance of ETFs ...................................................... 11 
VII. Growing hedge fund engagement with tokenization.............................................................. 13 
VIII. Risks, barriers and challenges to further growth .................................................................. 14 
IX. Conclusion: Signs of market maturation and investment sophistication ................................ 18 
 
 
 

3 
 
I. Introduction 
 
2024 has been a year filled with significant developments and transformative events that continue to 
shape the digital assets industry in profound ways. From the Securities and Exchange Commission’s 
(“SEC”) approval of spot bitcoin and ether exchange-traded funds (ETFs) to notable advancements 
towards clearer regulatory frameworks around the globe (e.g., the European Union’s Markets in Crypto-
Assets Regulation (“MiCA”), Hong Kong Monetary Authority stablecoin consultations and the introduction 
of multiple digital asset bills in the United States), the crypto market experienced exhilarating highs that 
saw a remarkable surge in asset prices, captivating the attention of investors worldwide. Given recent 
market activity, the industry finally appears ready to move past the events of 2022 which saw several 
high-profile fraud cases and a general lack of maturity across the wider digital assets landscape.  
The 2024 survey, conducted by PwC and the Alternative Investment Management Association (AIMA), 
offers insights into the evolving digital assets investment landscape as it relates to both ‘traditional’ (non-
crypto focused) and crypto-focused hedge funds.  
 
These findings include hedge fund managers’ perspectives on: 
• 
the impact of ETFs,  
• 
the increasing institutional interest in the emerging asset class and blockchain technologies,  
• 
ever-evolving investment management strategies, as well as  
• 
future outlooks on the nascent and burgeoning asset class. 
 
By analyzing sentiments from hedge fund managers currently investing in digital assets and those that 
are not, our findings shed light on the current sentiment around crypto investment.  
 
 
 
 
 
In its sixth year, our report aims to explore the evolving digital assets investment landscape for hedge 
funds. In the following sections, we delve into some of the key findings from the survey, providing insights 
into the state of the market, increasing institutional interest, the evolving product landscape, growing 
engagement with tokenization, as well as the risks, barriers, challenges, and how the industry is seeking 
to mature. 
 
 
In short: Traditional hedge funds are returning to digital asset investing 
after last year’s drop-off, and they are doing so in increasingly 
sophisticated ways.  

4 
 
II. Methodology 
 
The 6th Annual Global Crypto Hedge Fund Report examines the current state and evolution of the digital 
assets hedge fund market over the past year. The data contained in this report comes from a survey 
conducted by AIMA and PwC in Q2 2024 across a sample of close to 100 hedge funds from both 
traditional (42%) and digital asset focused hedge funds (58%) from over six geographical regions with an 
estimated aggregate of $124.5B in asset under management (AUM). For this survey, we define digital 
asset focused hedge funds as those that have at least 50% of AUM invested in digital assets. It excludes 
data from crypto index funds and crypto venture capital funds. Specifically, the survey questions were 
designed to understand the impact that the past year had on fund managers and highlight key themes 
and trends. 
 
 

5 
 
III. Key findings 
 
Digital asset investments rise as regulatory clarity and ETFs boost confidence: Nearly half 
(47%) of traditional hedge funds surveyed this year have exposure to digital assets, up from 29% 
in 2023 and 37% in 2022, driven by increased regulatory clarity and the launch of spot 
cryptocurrency ETFs in Asia and the U.S. Among those already invested, 67% plan to maintain 
the same level of capital employed while the remaining 33% plan to invest more capital by the 
end of 2024. 
 
More sophisticated investment strategies, shifting to derivatives: There has been a notable 
shift towards derivative trading in digital assets by traditional hedge funds, with its use rising to 
58% in 2024 (up from 38% in 2023), while spot trading dropped to 25% this year after peaking at 
69% last year. This signals growing sophistication in hedge fund strategies.  
 
Growing interest in tokenization despite regulatory challenges: Interest in fund tokenization 
is also growing, with 33% of hedge fund respondents either committed to or exploring 
tokenization, compared to around a quarter of traditional hedge funds last year. Among digital 
asset focused hedge funds, 12% are already investing in tokenized assets, although regulatory 
challenges remain the biggest hurdle to wider adoption.  
 
Rising institutional client demand: 43% of traditional hedge funds—whether invested or not in 
digital assets—are seeing increased interest from institutional clients. Currently, family offices and 
high-net-worth individuals (HNWIs) remain the largest investor categories in digital asset focused 
hedge funds, followed by fund of funds.  
 
Hedge fund sector remains cautious: Despite the industry’s growth, many traditional hedge 
fund managers remain hesitant, with 76% of those not currently invested in digital assets unlikely 
to enter the space within the next three years, up from 54% in 2023. The top barrier to entering 
the market, cited by 38% of traditional hedge funds not invested is the exclusion of  digital assets 
from investment mandates, rising from fourth place last year. While regulatory uncertainty 
remains a key concern, it has eased somewhat due to the adoption of clearer regulatory 
frameworks like the EU’s MiCA.  
 
 
 
 
 

6 
 
IV. Current landscape 
The digital assets landscape is rapidly evolving. Our survey shows that the average AUM for respondents 
is $1.5B, while traditional hedge funds average $3.14B. This difference between traditional hedge funds 
and digital asset hedge funds highlights the relative newness of digital assets as a primary investment 
strategy. In this section, we will explore differences in location, strategy and trading methods, among the 
surveyed hedge funds.  
 
In which jurisdiction is your fund domiciled? (Figure 1)  
Respondents were asked to select all that apply. 
 
The most common jurisdictions cited by digital asset hedge funds for domiciling their funds were the 
Cayman Islands (63%), Gibraltar (19%), and the US (16%) (see Figure 1). In the previous year, the 
Cayman Islands was home to 34% of the funds surveyed. Year-over-year growth of 29 percentage points 
shows that it remains the most preferable location for the domicile of digital asset funds. On the other 
hand, the US was home to 28% of funds surveyed last year. This year-over-year decrease shows 
managers may not currently prefer to domicile their digital asset funds in the US. 
 
What is your digital assets strategy? (Figure 2) 
 
 
 

7 
 
How are you invested in digital assets? (Figure 3) 
Respondents were asked to select all that apply. 
 
 
Hedge funds are increasingly diversifying their portfolios by incorporating digital assets, employing a 
variety of investment strategies to navigate this emerging market and its complexities. According to the 
survey data, the most popular digital asset strategies among traditional hedge funds include market-
neutral and discretionary long only, each adopted by 33% of respondents (see Figure 2).  Market-neutral 
strategies are often favored for their ability to manage risk while seeking returns in the fluctuating digital 
assets market. Although discretionary long only strategies lack the volatility dampening characteristics of 
market-neutral portfolios, they can capitalize on the upside potential of innovative blockchain projects or 
tokens. 
In addition to these strategies, quantitative long/short and quantitative long only strategies are also 
utilized, each by 17% of respondents. The quantitative long/short strategy tends to leverage algorithmic 
models and data analysis to capitalize on perceived market inefficiencies and trends. For digital asset 
hedge funds, quantitative long/short (33%) and market neutral (31%) are the prevailing strategies. The 
diversity in strategies adopted underscores the variety of risk appetites and investment objectives within 
the hedge fund community. 
When it comes to the types of digital assets that traditional hedge funds are investing in, spot was the 
most popular amongst digital asset hedge funds, selected by 88% of respondents (see Figure 3). Spot 
trading and exchange-traded products (ETPs) are also popular amongst traditional hedge funds, each 
A shift toward derivatives: Trading 
vehicle preferences over time 
Survey responses over the years show a shifting 
preference between derivative and spot trading of 
digital assets (see Figure 4). The percentage of 
respondents using derivatives dropped from 52% 
in 2022 to 38% in 2023, but rose to 58% this 
year. Spot trading, meanwhile, increased from 
52% in 2022 to 69% in 2023, but fell to 25% in 
2024. This suggest growing sophistication in how 
hedge funds trade digital assets. 

8 
 
used by 25% of respondents. Spot trading involves the direct purchase of digital assets, while ETPs offer 
a more traditional investment vehicle that tracks the performance of digital assets. Derivatives are also 
significant, with 58% of traditional hedge fund respondents and 64% of digital asset hedge fund 
respondents indicating their use. Some derivatives offer a way to gain exposure to digital assets without 
directly holding them, providing a hedge against volatility and potential downside risks.  
Furthermore, 17% of traditional and digital asset hedge funds each invest in digital assets through 
venture capital, indicating a longer-term belief in the growth and development of blockchain technologies 
and related innovations. Fund of funds, another investment method, is used by 17% of traditional hedge 
fund respondents and 12% of digital asset hedge funds, allowing them to diversify exposure by investing 
in a portfolio of other funds that hold digital assets. 
How are you trading digital assets? (Figure 5) 
Respondents were asked to select all that apply. 
 
The trading venues for these digital assets also vary. Centralized exchanges are the most popular, used 
by 58% of traditional hedge fund respondents, due to their liquidity and ease of use (see Figure 5). 
Decentralized exchanges, which can offer greater control over assets, are used by 33% of traditional 
hedge fund respondents. Over-the-counter (OTC) trading, preferred by 25% of traditional hedge fund 
respondents, provides a way to execute large trades without impacting the market price. 
When it comes to selecting a trading venue or platform, traditional hedge funds tend to weigh up several 
factors. The most significant factor is the counterparty risk, which was cited by 40% of respondents. 
Liquidity was the second most important factor, 
mentioned by 30%. Other considerations include 
regulation, token availability, and platform 
security, each noted by 10% of respondents. 
In terms of their preferred methods for trading 
digital assets, the vast majority of digital asset 
hedge funds favor using a centralized exchange 
(selected by 95% of respondents). Other popular 
methods include OTC, selected by 63% of 
respondents, and decentralized exchanges, 
selected by 49%.  
Stablecoins are another prevalent method, with 
78% of all hedge funds investing in the asset 
class using this form of digital asset. The primary 
reason that digital asset hedge funds cite for 
using them is as an alternative to fiat when 
entering and exiting transactions (72%) (see Figure 6). Other uses that digital asset hedge funds cite for 
stablecoins include generating yield (21%) and transferring funds internally or externally (19%). 
“Stablecoins are the effective currency of the digital 
asset ecosystem and an enabler for the future of 
finance. This has been reinforced by the finding that 
78% of hedge funds investing in digital assets are 
using stablecoins. This is in line with our experience in 
the market where the speed and efficiency when 
moving between transactions, funds or to investors is 
a critical differentiator, especially when viewed 
through the lens of capital efficiency.” 
Usman Ahmad, Co-Founder and CEO, Zodia Markets 

9 
 
If you use stablecoins, what is the main purpose for using them? (Figure 6) 
Respondents were asked to select all that apply. 
 
 
Traditional hedge funds are using diverse strategies to navigate the digital asset markets, including 
derivatives, spot trading, ETPs, and both centralized and decentralized exchanges. This reflects growing 
confidence and a more mature market as hedge funds take more strategic approaches to optimize 
returns and manage risk.  
 
 
 

10 
 
V. Increasing interest among institutional 
investors 
Closely mirroring the SEC’s approval of spot bitcoin and ether ETFs, as well as advancements in clearer 
regulatory frameworks, respondents reported a rising interest in digital assets from institutional investors, 
with two-thirds of all hedge fund managers surveyed noting increased interest (see Figure 7).    
Are you seeing increasing interest from institutional investors in digital assets? 
(Figure 7) 
 
   
 
The survey results paint an intriguing picture of the growing interest in digital assets among institutional 
investors. Among hedge funds that have already dipped their toes in the digital asset waters, a significant 
number (78%) have noticed increasing interest from institutional investors (see Figure 7). 
However, the story is a bit different for hedge funds that haven’t ventured into digital assets. Among 
these, 1 in 3 who surveyed have reported an uptick in interest. This could be a sign that institutional 
investors are more inclined to explore digital assets with hedge funds that already have developed some 
experience in this asset class. 
When analyzed by hedge fund type, notable differences emerge. 85% of digital asset hedge funds have 
reported increased interest from institutional investors, compared to 43% of traditional hedge funds. 
Regardless, increased regulatory clarity appears to be enhancing investor confidence as the digital asset 
markets progress beyond previous instances of fraud and extreme volatility.  
 
Hedge funds not 
invested in digital assets 
Hedge funds invested 
in digital assets 

11 
 
VI. Evolving product landscape and the 
importance of ETFs 
Since the SEC’s approval of the spot bitcoin ETFs in January of this year, total trading volume across all 
issuers1 has surpassed $350B2, averaging just shy of $2B in collective volume per day since the products 
inception and with Blackrock’s $IBIT ETF earning the designation of the fastest ETF to reach $10B in 
assets (49 days)3. According to reports, "investment managers held $4.7B worth of spot bitcoin ETFs in 
the second quarter of 2024”4. More recently, while not as dramatic as the launch of spot bitcoin ETFs, the 
launch of spot ether ETFs have resulted in nearly $6B in total trading volume in the first seven days of 
trading, averaging roughly $850M in daily volume across all issuers 5.  
 
Our survey supports this data, which showed a 
significant increase in interest in the launch of 
these products among the hedge funds surveyed. 
64% of all respondents believe that these 
approvals will create more opportunities for future 
product launches and enhanced strategies (see 
Figure 8). Future product launches could include 
bi-directional levered ETFs and potentially staking 
and yield enhancing products, which have 
already been explored by issuers. Among the digital asset hedge funds surveyed, the sentiment is even 
stronger, with 85% viewing the approvals as an opportunity for launching new digital asset focused 
products and services. By comparison traditional hedge funds remain largely unaffected by the approval 
of spot Bitcoin ETFs, with 66% stating that the development will have little to no impact on their plans to 
launch new digital asset products.  
 
How will the recent approvals of spot bitcoin ETFs change your perspective on 
launching new digital assets products? (Figure 8) 
Options  
All 
Traditional 
hedge funds 
Digital Asset 
hedge funds 
Negatively - ETFs will be a threat to future hedge 
fund product launches 
1% 
0% 
2% 
Neutral - little to no impact on product launches 
investing in digital assets 
35% 
66% 
13% 
Positively - more opportunity for product launches 
64% 
34% 
85% 
 
 
1 Issuers include Blackrock, Fidelity, Grayscale, Ark Invest/21 Shares, Bitwise, Franklin, Invesco/Galaxy, VanEck, Valkyrie, 
WisdomTree, and Hasdex. 
2 Cumulative Spot Bitcoin ETF Volumes, The Block 
3 IBIT and FBTC ETFs hit $10 billion AUM in weeks, smashing previous record of three years , The Block 
4 Here’s how hedge funds played spot Bitcoin ETFs in Q2, The Block 
5 Issuers include Blackrock, Fidelity, Grayscale, Ark Invest/21 Shares, Bitwise, Franklin, Invesco/Galaxy, VanEck, Valkyrie, 
WisdomTree, and Hasdex 
"The Bitcoin ETF was the most successful ETF 
launch in over 30 years of data and 5,000+ ETF 
launches. This statistic alone should make any 
allocator stop and reflect."  
Henri Arslanian, Co-Founder, Nine Blocks Capital Management 

12 
 
 
 
Do you plan to utilise bitcoin ETFs as part of your digital asset investment strategy? 
(Figure 9) 
 
Traditional hedge funds 
             Digital Asset hedge funds 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
Hedge funds have varied approaches to using bitcoin ETFs. Two-thirds of traditional hedge funds do not 
plan to incorporate bitcoin ETFs into their current digital asset strategies, and only a quarter of digital 
asset hedge funds are considering this option (see Figure 9). This suggests that, while hedge funds may 
not be adopting bitcoin ETFs widely, they may still view them favorably for their role in the broader digital 
assets industry.   
 
“For years, the story of institutional adoption of digital assets 
has been ahead of actual adoption data. That has now 
changed. Regulatory advancements, such as the introduction 
of spot ETFs, have paved the way for wider adoption. At 
Galaxy, we believe strongly that further regulatory clarity is on 
the horizon, and that a sustained period of institutional 
adoption will follow.” 
Steve Kurz, Global Head of Asset Management, Galaxy 

13 
 
VII. Growing hedge fund engagement with 
tokenization 
Tokenization – the process of issuing a unique digital representation of an asset on a blockchain – is 
already driving significant innovation in the operations of financial services. Various entities, including 
banks, asset managers, lenders, payment providers, corporate treasurers, and finance departments, are 
now tokenizing a wide range of assets.5 Currently, 12% of digital asset hedge funds who responded to 
our survey say that they are investing in tokenized assets. These assets can include bank deposits, 
securities, commodities, and documentation.  
Of those survey respondents that had an interest in tokenization, the top reasons for interest were 
tokenization’s opportunity to facilitate liquidity (37%) and to broaden access to more investors (27%) (see 
Figure 10). 
What is it that interests your hedge fund most about tokenisation? (Figure 10) 
 Respondents were asked to select one. Those who selected “not interested” have been excluded. 
 
In addition to this growing interest in tokenized assets, there is a notable interest in the process of 
tokenization within the hedge fund industry. This year, 33% of all hedge fund respondents are planning to 
explore tokenizing units in their fund or are committed to tokenizing units in their fund over the coming 12 
months (see Figure 11). This includes both traditional and digital asset focused hedge funds. Last year, 
only a quarter of traditional hedge funds surveyed confirmed that they were beginning to explore 
tokenization.  
When asked what the greatest perceived barrier to wider adoption of tokenization is, respondents 
overwhelmingly indicated regulation as the biggest obstacle. This indicates that while hedge funds see 
the potential benefits of tokenization, they are also acutely aware of the challenges. It is also noted that 
distribution continues to be a challenge for both digital asset focused and traditional hedge funds. The 
future of the industry will likely be shaped by how the challenges are addressed, and the extent t o which 
hedge funds can capitalize on the opportunities presented by digital assets and tokenization.  
37%
27%
12%
7%
5%
5%
5%
2%
Facilitating
liquidity
Broadened
access to more
investors
Secondary
market trading
options
Reduced cost Programmability
Enabling
fractional
ownership of
assets
Greater
transparency
Enhanced risk
management
capabilities

14 
 
While some hedge funds are intrigued by the potential of tokenization, they are also cautious. The 
regulatory environment and market demand are key factors that will determine the pace of adoption. 
However, with increasing interest from institutional asset managers, the momentum towards tokenization 
appears to be building.  
 
Is your hedge fund tokenizing units in your fund? (Figure 11) 
 
“We are seeing the emergence of tokenization as an important growth area for digital asset 
hedge funds… Today, that is largely tokenized treasury products for yield, but increasingly 
we are seeing exposures such as tokenized reinsurance risk, tokenized carbon markets, 
and tokenized credit/loans. Bringing this exposure onchain will allow digital asset hedge 
funds to have more options for generating alpha and managing risk in the crypto markets.” 
Anthony Bassili, Head of Allocators & Tokenization, Coinbase Institutional 
67%
22%
11%
No, and no plans to
explore
No, but we are planning
to explore tokenizing
units in our fund
Yes, we are committed
to tokenizing units in our
fund over the next 12
months

15 
 
VIII. Risks, barriers and challenges to 
further growth 
For traditional hedge funds, the main perceived barrier for growth in digital assets adoption is regulatory 
uncertainty, with almost half (45%) of respondents citing this as a concern. Other concerns like bad 
actors, quantum computing, custody issues, restaking, politics/government bans, and protocol design 
were also noted, but these were less prominent, each getting about 9% of the votes.  
Digital asset hedge funds also flagged regulatory uncertainty as their top concern for the industry’s 
growth, but it was even more pronounced, with 56% of respondents choosing this option (see Figure 12). 
This remains consistent with each previous year’s survey results, which highlighted regulatory uncertainty 
as the main obstacle to further growth.  
What do you see as the key risk for digital assets at present? (Figure 12)  
 
Traditional hedge funds 
 
 
Digital Asset hedge funds 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For traditional hedge funds without digital asset investments the two main non-regulatory related barriers 
cited by respondents are either no investor mandate or little-to-no investment conviction in the asset 
class. Interestingly, the barrier of digital assets being outside the scope of the current investment 
mandate has shot up from fourth last year to number one this year. This might suggest a growing 

16 
 
bifurcation between those hedge funds which remain skeptical or with constrained investment mandates 
and those now choosing to enter the space, albeit still with relatively low allocations. 
Forty-two percent of hedge funds not currently investing in digital assets note that they would start 
investing or become more interested in the asset class if the main barriers to investing in digital assets 
were removed. However, 58% would not change their existing approach. This is a slight increase from 
last year, when 40% stated that the removal of barriers would still not impact their current approach to not 
invest. 
Where is the greatest need for market infrastructure improvements? (Figure 13) 
 
Traditional hedge funds                                                   Digital Asset hedge funds
 
 
 
 
 
 
Both traditional and digital asset hedge funds see prime brokerage as an area that needs to see 
improvements to support broader investment. Traditional hedge funds cite prime brokerage as their top 
need (33%), and digital asset hedge funds cited it second most (24%) (see Figure 13). 
Outside of prime brokerage, opinions differ between traditional and digital asset hedge funds on which 
areas of the market need the most improvement in order to support further industry growth. Traditional 
hedge funds see legal and compliance services, fund administration, blockchain analytics, custody 

17 
 
services, banking rails, and execution by trading venues, but with fewer votes, each representing 
between 8% and 17% of responses. 
Digital asset hedge funds think banking rails need the most improvement, with 31% of them selecting this. 
Other areas such as custody services, execution by trading venues, technological standardization, 
blockchain analytics, cybersecurity, fund administration, and legal and compliance services were also 
mentioned, but didn't get as many votes, with each representing between 2% and 24% of responses.  
 
 

18 
 
IX. Conclusion: Signs of market maturation 
and investment sophistication 
In summary, we see the following in 2024’s digital assets investment market: 
 
Positive investment momentum: Hedge funds are investing more in digital assets, due 
in part to increased regulatory clarity, new investment options (particularly ETFs), 
increased investor interest, and the rise of mainstream institutions entering the market. 
Increased sophistication: Both traditional and digital asset hedge funds are leveraging 
more sophisticated investment strategies than in year’s past, as signified by the use of 
derivatives, the mixture of trading venues, stablecoin usage, or expanded investment in 
tokenized assets. 
General agreement on the challenges still to be solved: Both traditional and digital 
asset hedge funds see further regulatory clarity and infrastructure in prime brokerage to 
be key areas for improvement if the industry is to continue growing. 
 
With increasing interest from institutional investors and a maturing trading landscape, the crypto hedge 
fund industry is well-positioned for further growth and development. 

© 2024 PwC. All rights reserved. PwC refers to the PwC network and/or one or more of its member firms, each of 
which is a separate legal entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details. This content is for general 
information purposes only and should not be used as a substitute for consultation with professional advisors. 
 
About AIMA 
The Alternative Investment Management Association (AIMA) is the global representative of the alternative 
investment industry, with around 2,100 corporate members in over 60 countries. AIMA’s fund manager 
members collectively manage more than US$3 trillion in hedge fund and private credit assets. 
AIMA draws upon the expertise and diversity of its membership to provide leadership in industry initiatives 
such as advocacy, policy and regulatory engagement, educational programs and sound practice guides. 
AIMA works to raise media and public awareness of the value of the industry. 
AIMA set up the Alternative Credit Council (ACC) to help firms focused on the private credit and direct 
lending space. The ACC currently represents over 250 members that manage over US$1 trillion of private 
credit assets globally. The ACC is an affiliate of AIMA and is governed by its own board which ultimately 
reports to the AIMA Council.  
AIMA is committed to developing skills and education standards and is a co -founder of the Chartered 
Alternative Investment Analyst designation (CAIA) – the first and only specialized educational standard 
for alternative investment specialists. AIMA is governed by its Council (Board of Directors ). 
For further information, please visit www.aima.org.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pwc.com