Building the Digital Asset 
Securities Ecosystem
DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES CONTROL PRINCIPLES: A FRAMEWORK FOR ADOPTION
In collaboration with
May 2024
Table of Contents
May 2024
Building 
the Digital 
Asset 
Securities 
Ecosystem
An Industry 
Paper from                       
DTCC, Clearstream, 
and Euroclear with the 
collaboration of BCG
BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
2 Letter from the CEOs
Executive Summary Introduction
Transforming Capital Markets through Digital Asset Securities
A Vision for Collaborative Advancement
Advancing the Digital Asset Securities Evolution
Building Adoption and Overcoming Fragmentation
Principles
Risks
Controls
An Important Step Toward Standards
Case Study: Translating Principles into Practice
Next Steps in the Evolution of the DASCP
A United Path Forward: The Imperative for Collective Action
Appendix
Complete Risk and Control Taxonomy
Contributors
About DTCC, Clearstream, Euroclear, and BCG 3 4 6 6 7 8 9 11
12 13
15 16 21 22 23 24 45 47 Case Study Snapshot 17 Contents Letter from the CEOs Dear industry colleagues,
Time and again, the global financial markets have 
leaned on financial market infrastructures (FMIs) to 
drive change. As we are in the midst of rapid evolution 
in distributed ledger technology (DLT) and digital asset 
securities (DAS) , DTCC, Clearstream, and Euroclear have 
partnered to play a lead role in the development and 
adoption of this technology. Between them, the FMIs 
have decades of experience, a vast network of client 
relationships from nearly every corner of the financial 
markets, and a strong track record of supporting 
market evolution – which has earned the FMIs the 
trust and respect of market participants, regulators, 
industry associations, and others. The adoption of digital 
technology presents opportunities and challenges that 
require a cohesive, strategic approach, emphasizing 
the need for collaboration to effectively integrate these 
innovations into the global financial ecosystem.  The beginning of our collaboration was marked by 
our first white paper, “Advancing the Digital Asset Era, 
Together.” Building on this, we have worked together to 
develop the “Digital Asset Securities Control Principles” 
(DASCP), which are presented in this white paper. The 
principles serve as a set of guidelines underpinning 
our collective resolve to uphold the highest standards 
of integrity, security, and interoperability. This 
framework is crucial for creating an inclusive, resilient 
financial ecosystem that is adaptable to technological 
advancements and responsive to diverse market 
needs. We would like to thank BCG for its valuable 
support in enriching and testing this framework. The DASCP marks the starting point of further industry-
wide engagement to enable standardization, drive 
adoption, and unlock value. To achieve these goals, 
we intend to put these principles into action. By 
leveraging them in our digital asset activities, we will 
effectively demonstrate to clients, regulators, and the 
broader industry that digital asset securities can be 
just as safe and secure as traditional assets. We will 
also advise and support market participants as they 
leverage the principles in their own business activities. 

Ultimately, we believe that industry collaboration is not 
only the most expedient way – but also the most effective 
way – to build a robust global digital assets ecosystem. 
We invite you to join us in this exciting journey that 
has the potential to redefine global finance, ensuring 
that this digital transformation benefits the ecosystem 
and contributes to sustainable economic growth. We 
look forward to your support and engagement as 
we collectively expand upon these principles, setting 
new standards for financial markets worldwide.
Sincerely,
Frank La Salla
CEO, DTCC
Samuel Riley
CEO, Clearstream 
Securities Services
Valérie Urbain
CEO, Euroclear
Ultimately, 
we believe 
that industry 
collaboration is 
not only the most 
expedient way 
– but also the 
most effective 
way – to build 
a robust global 
digital assets 
ecosystem.” “
BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
3
Contents
Executive Summary This white paper presents a comprehensive set of risk 
management principles and controls designed to 
unlock the transformative nature of distributed ledger 
technology (DLT) in the realm of digital asset securities 
(DAS), excluding cryptocurrencies. It outlines an 
industry-wide risk and control framework, which serves 
as a guide to navigate the current set of challenges, 
fostering operational excellence in financial markets 
driven by DLT. Through this structured approach, 
the white paper aims to facilitate the adoption of 
tokenization into the financial markets, paving the way 
for its substantial role in the evolution of finance.  DTCC, Clearstream, and Euroclear have developed the 
Digital Asset Securities Control Principles (DASCP), 
utilizing our combined decades of experience to 
effectively manage regulatory compliance and reduce 
operational risks. This set of principles outlines a 
safe and efficient ecosystem, identifies potential 
risks specific to DAS, and provides appropriate 
recommendations for controls to mitigate these risks.
In fostering these functions, the DASCP framework 
is designed to be asset class agnostic and 
technologically neutral, ensuring its adaptability 
to the diverse operational requirements of 
organizations across the financial ecosystem.
Regulatory Compliance and Market Integrity: 
ensures that DAS operations align with existing and evolving 
regulatory frameworks, maintaining legal and market integrity.
Risk Management: 
provides a structured approach to identify, assess, and manage the specific 
risks associated with DAS, enhancing market stability and security.
Market Adoption:
facilitates the broader adoption of DAS by setting clear guidelines 
that will reduce the barrier to entry for new participants.
Interoperability and Efficiency:
provides the basis for subsequent standardization that encourages interoperability 
between diverse platforms and systems (e.g., other blockchain platforms, legacy, and 
third-party systems, etc.), crucial for efficient transactions across market players.
Trust Building: 
builds trust among issuers, investors, regulators, and market 
participants, fundamental for sustainable market growth.
BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
4
This framework serves multiple functions:
Contents
The primary objective of this white paper is to catalyze 
comprehensive understanding, foster collaboration, 
and spearhead further advancement within the digital 
asset ecosystem. To ensure our approach remained 
objective and well-informed, a comprehensive analysis 
was conducted. It

included reviews of approximately 
100 regulations, white papers and expert discussions 
across multiple jurisdictions, as well as over 20 interviews with key market participants and technology vendors .  The initial development of the DASCP marks the 
beginning of a more expansive initiative. The DASCP 
will serve as a baseline to help propel the industry 
toward standards. To ensure the framework remains 
reflective of the latest industry developments, we plan 
to transition the stewardship of these principles to a 
industry association. We believe that a neutral third-
party industry association is best positioned to align 
the digital asset ecosystem on prioritizing, identifying, 
agreeing, and adopting standards. This move is designed 
to position the association to actively engage with the 
broader ecosystem. This involvement is crucial for the 
DASCP to serve not just as a set of guidelines but as a 
dynamic catalyst that drives the conversation forward.  DTCC, Clearstream, and Euroclear are committed to 
advising and supporting this work as it continues. BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
5
Key Takeaways
Comprehensive Framework Development:
Undertook the collaborative development of the Digital Asset Securities Control Principles (DASCP), 
providing a robust framework to support the evolving digital asset ecosystem. This initiative  
underscores the commitment of DTCC, Clearstream, and Euroclear to shaping the future of finance 
through innovative technologies.  1
Foundational Principles for Industry Standardization: 
Establishes critical principles for the successful adoption of DAS, with the DASCP noted for its asset class 
and technology agnosticism, making them universally applicable. This neutrality is crucial for facilitating 
a balanced and inclusive dialogue around standards. By serving as a foundational document, the DASCP 
aims to spark industry-wide discussions that will help shape robust, comprehensive standards for the 
digital asset marketplace.  2
Identifying Risks and Establishing Controls: 
Presents a detailed analysis of the potential risks associated with the adoption of DAS and offers a 
comprehensive set of controls to mitigate these risks. This proactive risk management is intended to 
safeguard the integrity and stability of the DAS market.  3
Encouraging Active Industry Participation:
Invites all stakeholders to actively participate in the evolution of the DASCP, contributing to a 
collective effort that shapes the future of digital finance.  4
Future-Proofing Financial Markets:
Serves as a blueprint for a common and resilient digital asset securities ecosystem, illustrating how the 
adoption of these principles can help future-proof financial markets against technological disruptions and 
regulatory changes.  5 Transition to Industry-Wide Engagement: 
Highlights the pivotal next step of transitioning the stewardship of the DASCP to an industry 
association. This move is aimed at fostering broader engagement and ensuring the framework’s 
relevance and dynamism in response to an evolving market and technology landscape. 6  Contents
Introduction: Transforming 
Capital Markets through Digital Asset Securities  The scope of this paper encompasses digital asset 
securities (subsequently referred to as “DAS”) as 
defined by GFMA.

Specifically, it includes securities 
that utilize DLT to represent or embody rights 
similar to those of traditional securities, whether 
these are issued directly on a blockchain (i.e., native 
security tokens) or are digital representations (i.e., 
digital twins) of existing securities (e.g., all forms 
of equity, debt, derivatives, etc.). These digital 
assets might provide dividends, voting rights, 
interest payments, or other rights associated 
with traditional securities. Excluded from this 
scope are money or money-like digital assets, 
such as cryptocurrencies, stablecoins, and central 
bank digital currencies (CBDCs), which function 
primarily as means of payment or stores of value.  GFMA - Global Financial Markets Association: 
Impact of Distributed Ledger Technology 
in Global Capital Markets, 2023
DAS introduce new capabilities in financial services, 
re-envisioning existing processes and creating trust in 
real time. Programmability, self-executing automation, 
and instantaneous reconciliation are key features 
that have the potential to transform the industry. Central to this transformation is DLT, which enables 
nearly immediate transaction settlement and creates 
immutable transaction records. Asset tokenization 
leverages DLT to create reusable processes that can 
be quickly adapted to develop new DAS and manage 
their life cycles, enhancing operational scalability. With 
these advantages, financial institutions are increasingly 
investing in DAS to unlock these transformative benefits.
Overall, propelled by smart contracts and 
automated processes in different areas, annual 
global infrastructure operational cost savings of 
~$15-20 billion have been estimated.1 Furthermore, 
due to shortened settlement cycles, DLT impacts 
on collateral management could release ~$100+ 
billion annually in freed financial resources.2
By 2030, the tokenization of global illiquid 
assets is projected to be a $16 trillion business 
opportunity,3 significantly increasing asset 
liquidity and expanding market participation. 
This shift not only promises enhanced efficiency 
and transparency but also democratizes access 
to investment opportunities, reshaping the 
financial landscape for a more inclusive future.  1, 2Impact of Distributed Ledger Technology in Global Capital Markets, GFMA, May 2023
3Relevance of on-chain asset tokenization in crypto winter, BCG, and ADDX, May 2022
BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM 6
Contents Despite these potential benefits, widespread DLT 
adoption faces challenges. According to ISSA’s recent 
survey , only 37% of the industry is live with DLT.4 The 
full benefits of DAS cannot be realized without more 
concerted and integrated efforts toward collaboration. 
In this context, FMIs have a crucial role to play. Historically 
the linchpins of the financial system, facilitating 
clearing, settlement, and recordkeeping, FMIs are now 
supporting the integration of DAS into the conventional 
financial fabric. In building upon the foundation laid 
by our previous collaborative publication, Advancing the Digital Asset Era, Together,5 this white paper 
delineates our journey toward adopting Digital Assets.  It recognizes the collaborative efforts needed from 
FMIs, regulatory bodies, and the broader financial 
community, advocating for a united approach to 
address challenges, drive innovation, and seize the 
opportunities DAS offer. As highlighted by Valérie 
Urbain, CEO of Euroclear, FMIs are actively working 
“toward the co-creation of tomorrow’s financial system 
– one that’s open, inclusive, efficient, and resilient.”6 

4DLT in the Real World Survey 2024 – Key Findings, International Securities Services 
Association, 2024
5DTCC, Clearstream, Euroclear, “Advancing the Digital Asset Era, Together”, Sept 2023 6Valérie Urbain, “Safety by design: Lessons in mainstreaming digital assets with 
resilience,” World Economic Forum, Apr 19, 2024
7Dr . Stephanie Eckerman, “Are digital infrastructures finally ready to scale?” Sibos 
2023, Sept 2023
A Vision for Collaborative 
Advancement  With this white paper, we are introducing the DASCP, 
which describes a DAS framework consisting of 
foundational principles for a secure and efficient 
ecosystem, risks arising from the implementation 
and the adoption of the new technology, and 
controls to effectively mitigate these risks.
During her interview at Sibos 2023, Dr. Stephanie 
Eckermann, CEO of Clearstream Banking AG, 
noted that “the digital disruption is there now and 
ready to scale.”7 The introduction of the DASCP 
responds to this pivotal realization, acknowledging 
that scaling DAS is essential for fostering a vibrant 
ecosystem. By establishing a comprehensive set of 
controls, the DASCP serves as an initial step toward 
catalyzing discussions on standardization. This 
approach positions the DASCP as a critical starting 
point that paves the way for future endeavors, 
ultimately helping to drive scale in DAS markets. BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
7
FMIs are actively 
working toward 
the co-creation 
of tomorrow’s 
financial system 
– one that’s 
open, inclusive, 
efficient, and 
resilient.” — Valérie Urbain
CEO, Euroclear
“
The digital disruption 
is there now and 
ready to scale.”
— Dr. Stephanie Eckermann
CEO, Clearstream Banking AG
“
Contents
Advancing the Digital Asset Securities Evolution
We believe that the DASCP framework is a foundational starting point for promoting 
DAS adoption and provides a valuable baseline for the industry:
Guiding the Market Toward Digital Asset Securities Adoption: 
With DAS set to transform securities trading and ownership, we are dedicated to clarifying the complexities surrounding these 
digital innovations and offering insights into how they can enhance the conventional securities markets. Addressing Challenges and Crafting Solutions for Digital Asset Securities:  The transition to DAS introduces various challenges, from regulatory hurdles to issues of interoperability. Through 
the DASCP framework, we aim to offer a blueprint that addresses these challenges. Fostering Industry Collaboration for Digital Asset Securities Integration:  The successful integration of DAS necessitates joint efforts across the financial ecosystem. We emphasize the importance of collaboration among regulators, 
technology providers, and financial institutions to establish a cohesive framework that supports the secure and efficient circulation of DAS. Setting the Stage for Digital Asset Securities Standardization and Interoperability:
For DAS to fully realize their potential, establishing industry-wide standards and ensuring interoperability are vital. This includes engaging not only market 
participants but also policymakers and regulatory bodies to ensure that the standards align with both industry needs and regulatory frameworks. The DASCP 
lays the foundation for this comprehensive engagement, aiming to develop standards that facilitate both market growth and regulatory compliance. This 
collaborative approach is crucial for ensuring the framework’s effectiveness and the long-term viability of digital asset securities in the global market.

Inspiring Innovation and Future Exploration in Digital Asset Securities: Looking beyond immediate applications, we are eager to explore the broader possibilities that DAS offer for 
transforming securities markets and unlocking incremental value for the industry.  BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
8
Contents
Building Adoption 
and Overcoming 
Fragmentation
In speaking about the future of digital markets prior 
to the World Economic Forum in January 2024, 
Frank La Salla, CEO of DTCC, emphasized the critical 
need for foundational principles. He noted, “We have 
initiated a set of control principles that prepare the 
groundwork for ensuring the emerging tokenized 
securities market is as efficient and secure as today’s 
securities marketplace . These principles are crafted to 
lay the foundations, reducing risks by defining clear 
roles, responsibilities, and the controls necessary for a 
robust framework.”8 The DASCP is pivotal in this context, 
designed to address the digital asset landscape’s 
complexities before full standardization can be achieved.  The DASCP enhances system resilience, safeguards 
customer assets, and facilitates seamless transactions 
through improved connectivity and interoperability, also 
emphasizing the importance of operational scalability. The DASCP framework comprehensively covers 
various value chain activities essential to the 
life cycle of DAS. These activities include:
•	
Issuance: Involves pre-issuance workflows 
depending on asset type, registration with Central 
Securities Depositories (CSDs), and compliance 
with relevant regulatory frameworks. •	
Clearing: Encompasses the calculation and 
request of margins, novation of centrally 
cleared trades, netting of obligations, and 
communication of net security / cash obligations.  •	
Settlement: Covers the processes of sending 
and confirming cash payments, transferring 
ownership of securities, and ensuring proper 
reconciliation by involved parties.
•	
Custody: Involves the maintenance, safekeeping, and 
reporting of ownership records, along with corporate 
action management on behalf of asset owners.
•	
Asset Servicing: Entails services provided on 
behalf of the issuer (e.g., processing dividend 
payments, splits, rights issues, etc.).
It is important to note that the current scope of the 
DASCP excludes secondary trading activities.  The DASCP framework is designed to be asset class and 
technology neutral, not advocating for any particular 
DLT architecture – be it public, private, permissioned, 
or public permissioned. This ensures its applicability 
across various DLT platforms without endorsing specific 
third-party solutions. This technology and asset class 
agnosticism contributes to the framework’s adaptability, 
ensuring that the DASCP remains relevant and effective 
amid the rapidly evolving financial landscape. The DASCP has been methodically assembled and 
rigorously tested with over 20 market participants.  Going 
forward, we invite all industry stakeholders to engage 
with and actively drive the evolution of this framework. 8Frank La Salla, “Why standards and controls are essential to the future of digital 
financial markets” World Economic Forum, Jan 16, 2024
BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
9 These principles 
are crafted 
to lay the 
foundations, 
reducing risks 
by defining 
clear roles, 
responsibilities, 
and the 
controls 
necessary 
for a robust 
framework.” — Frank La Salla
CEO, DTCC

“
Contents
To achieve its objectives, the DASCP has been crafted 
using a structured, layered approach as depicted in 
the figure to the right and summarized below:  •	
Principle Definition Established: Initially, the 
DASCP framework identified a set of foundational 
principles that function as overarching 
objectives guiding the entire framework.  •	
Risk Identification Compilation: A comprehensive 
list of risks associated with each principle is compiled, 
incorporating traditional finance risks adapted 
for DAS and new risks unique to this sector.  •	
Control Development Design: Controls 
for each identified risk are then designed, 
emphasizing flexibility to allow them to serve as 
adaptable guidelines rather than rigid rules. The DASCP was developed in multiple layers along foundational principles, risks, and controls. At this juncture, the DASCP is not about creating fixed standards; rather, it is laying the necessary 
groundwork that will inform the development of comprehensive industry standards in the future. Description  Hover over the layers in the 
pyramid to find out more. BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
10
Control 
Development 
Risk Identification
Principle Definition
Contents
Principles  The rise in DLT initiatives signifies a shift in financial 
market infrastructure, reminiscent of the robust 
standards set forth by the Principles for Financial 
Market Infrastructures (pFMIs) issued by BIS and 
IOSCO. As tokenization becomes increasingly 
prevalent, the DASCP has been proactively established 
to address the challenges of widespread adoption. The DASCP is formulated with an understanding of 
the core objectives that pFMIs champion: integrity, 
stability, and confidence in the financial system.
Click on the principles to the right 
to find out more about each.  BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
11 The principles below are listed in order of priority, but 
all are vital to building a secure DAS ecosystem: Legal Certainty:
Ensuring operations comply with existing laws and regulations 
to maintain market integrity and investor confidence. Regulatory Compliance:
Encouraging alignment with regulatory frameworks to build a 
foundation of trust and safety in digital asset markets. Resilience and Security:
Developing robust infrastructure capable of resisting disruptions, while protecting 
sensitive data and ensuring the continuous operation of digital asset services. Safeguarding Customer Assets:
Implementing governance over smart contracts to manage and protect 
customer assets within the digital asset ecosystem securely. Connectivity and Interoperability:
Facilitating transactions and flexible settlements across diverse networks 
to enable the seamless transfer and settlement of DAS. Operational Scalability:
Striving for efficiency and cost-effectiveness through standardized roles 
and smart contract functions to accommodate market growth.  Contents
Risks Building on the foundational principles outlined above, it is crucial to systematically manage a wide range of risks. Adopting a risk-first approach ensures that emerging risks associated 
with DAS are proactively identified and effectively mitigated. This establishes a solid basis for safeguarding market integrity and building investor trust, which are critical for the adoption 
and growth of digital asset markets. These risks, spanning the entire value chain, were identified along with the outlined principles to ensure robustness and exhaustiveness of the framework. Some risks 
inherently impact multiple principles.

For conciseness, they were assigned to the principle with the highest importance, as depicted in the figure below. Immediate priority
Minimum requirements Subsequent priority
Unlock full potential
R1 Digital Asset Legal 
Noncompliance
R3 Smart Contract 
Legal Enforceability
R4 Unauthorized 
Investor Holdings
R8 Dispute Resolution
R10 Network Integrity
R30 Interoperability Risk
R32 Inability to Scale
R34 Reputational Risk
R35 Market Inefficiency
R33 Digital Asset Liquidity
R26 Asset 
Misappropriation
R27 Unauthorized 
Smart Contract Access
R31 Network Utilization 
and Fragmentation
R28 Insufficient Smart 
Contract Control
R29 Financial 
Institution Insolvency
R36 Inadequate 
Stakeholder / Client 
Understanding of 
Digital Asset Securities
R19 Network Outage
R22 Operational Errors
R24 Immutable 
Transactions
R25 Inadequate 
Managerial Oversight
R23 Asset 
Mismanagement
R14 Poisoned Oracle
R15 Private Data Leakage
R20 Smart                          
Contract Defects
R11 Network 
Traffic Attack
R18 Interoperability 
Security Risks
R21 Complexity of 
Change Management
R13 Compromised 
Inter-Network Transfer
R16 Exploited 
Consensus Algorithm
R17 Quantum 
Computing Threat
R12 Smart                 
Contract Integrity
R9 Market Abuse
R5 Money Laundering and 
Terrorist Financing Risks
R6 DLT Network Suitability 
/ Adaptability
R7 Digital Asset Regulatory 
Noncompliance
R2 Unclear 
Settlement Finality
1
2
4
5
6
3
Legal
Certainty
Regulatory
Compliance
Safeguarding
Customer Assets
Connectivity &
Interoperability
Operational
Scalability
Resilience and Security
BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
12
Contents
Controls
The comprehensive risk inventory establishes 
a foundation for developing targeted controls 
essential for managing identified risks, thereby 
supporting the transition toward a DAS ecosystem 
aligned with our foundational principles.  These controls are designed to be adaptable, serving 
as a broad framework. Thus, they function more as 
guidelines rather than rigid controls and are crafted 
to address multiple risks, offering flexibility to adjust 
to different technologies and products. These controls 
are also dynamic, allowing for iterative updates 
to keep pace with the changing risk landscape 
and emerging technological advancements. The following controls have been derived 
and mapped to the risks they are mitigating. 
Each control mitigates at least one risk, with 
many controls addressing multiple risks.  A secondary layer of control categorization organizes 
controls into four distinct groups, each distinguished by 
a unique suffix appended to the control number:
L            Legal: 
Addresses adherence to regulatory requirements and legal frameworks, ensuring 
that DAS operations comply with applicable laws and compliance standards. S            Smart Contract Governance:  
Ensures the accuracy, authorization, and performance of smart contracts. R            Resilience and Data Protection:   
Protects systems against disruptions and secures sensitive information. N            Network Settlement: 
Fosters reliable and timely transaction processing within the DLT network. BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
13 Contents  As illustrated in the figure below, controls also have been organized into a taxonomy comprised of four categories – Legal, Smart Contract Governance, Resiliency and Data Protection, 
and Network Settlement – each categorized according to its required mitigating measures to enhance clarity. The specific risk that the control mitigates is listed below the control.

Legal
Smart Contract Governance
Resilience & Data Protection
Network Settlement
C1-L Participation Guidelines
C7-L Governance
C14-S Certification
C24-S Functions / Behaviors
C25-S Bookkeeping
C26-S Account Structure
C28-S Smart Contract Roles
C37-R Backups
C39-R Recovery Testing
C46-N Data Lineage
C48-N Settlement Proofs
C49-N Fail to Settle Process
C42-R Identity Verification
C29-S Emergency Stop
C30-S Account Pause
C31-S Token Pause
C23-S Data / Properties
C32-R Audit Trail
C18-S Code Auditing
C11-LPolicies and Procedures
C8-L Rule Enforcement 
and Arrangements
C13-S Smart Contract 
Auditing Guidelines
C17-S Dispute Resolution 
Mechanism
C27-S Key Life Cycle 
Management
C33-R Data Life Cycle 
Management
C40-R Private Data 
Segregation
C47-N Encumbrance 
Mechanism
C53-N Continuous 
Management Education
C55-N Third-Party 
Integration Guidelines
C57-N Liquidity 
Management Strategies
C50-N Transaction 
Sequencing
C52-N Compliance and 
Policy Management
C54-N Legacy 
Infrastructure Integration
C56-N Community 
Engagement Framework
C51-N Cross-Ledger Data 
and Inventory Balances
C41-R Anonymization 
and Pseudonymization
C43-R Geographical 
Distribution
C44-R Feature 
Deployment Process
C45-R Data Integrity 
Correction
C34-R Data Subject Access 
Rights Enforcement
C36-R Redundancy 
and Concurrency
C38-R Failure Prevention, 
Detection, and Recovery
C35-R Event Monitoring 
and Alerts
C19-S Smart Contract 
Entitlements
C21-S Intraoperability 
between DLT Networks
C22-S Token 
Specification Model
C20-S Quantum-Resistant 
Signature Algorithms
C15-S Investor Compliance 
and Access Control
C16-S Multiparty 
Transaction Validation
C9-L Regulatory Approval 
and Oversight
C10-L Asset Safeguarding 
and Segregation
C2-L Product Eligibility
C6-L Terms and Conditions
R1, R35
R1, R6, R35
R3, R12
R22, R32
R2, R12, R14, R16, R23, R24, R26, R27
R9, R14, R16, R19, R22, R25, R30, R33
R7
R15
R2
R5
R30
R33
R2
R2
R2, R13
R4, R5
R30, R32
R31, R34
R2, R13
R15
R19
R21
R22
R15
R7, R24
R10, R11, R19 
R10, R11, R19, R21 
R10, R19, R21
R1, R12, R15, R21, R23, R27
R10, R11, R19, R21 
R22, R32
R22, R29, R32
R22, R29, R32
R28, R32
R28, R32
R28, R32
R28, R32
R12, R16, R20, R35
R7, R35
R1, R9
R3
R8
R26, R27
R16, R23, R24, R26, R27, R28
R18, R22, R30, R32
R22, R32
R17
R4, R5
R4, R5, R7, R12, R23, R26, R28
R1
R4, R23, R25, R26, R27, R29
R1, R7
R1, R29
R1, R6, R10, R14, R35
R1, R3, R8, R25, R26
C3-L Network and 
Oracle Vetting
C5-L Service Providers 
Responsibilities / 
Limitation of Liability
C12-L Education and 
Training for Stakeholders 
on Digital Asset Securities
C4-L Participant Roles, 
Responsibilities, and Obligations
R1
R36
BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
14
Contents
An Important Step 
toward Standards
The DASCP is a strategic road map, aiming to provide 
the industry with a proposal on how DAS can be 
managed, regulated, and scaled. Such a strategic 
road map paves the way for standards by:
•	
Forging a Common Language: A shared 
understanding of terminology and concepts is 
a cornerstone of effective standardization.
•	
Enabling Regulatory Clarity: Developed in 
collaboration with BCG, which reviewed over 
100 regulations and engaged with more than 
20 key market participants to ensure alignment 
with both existing and emerging global 
regulatory frameworks. This clarity in regulation 
is critical for the advancement of DAS. 

•	
Providing a Blueprint for Industry-Wide Alignment: Developing the capabilities to form an aligned 
perspective on controls is essential for subsequent 
industry-wide alignment processes. The principles 
act as a guiding force in the subsequent phases 
of DAS adoption, ensuring that standards reflect 
the collective insights of the entire industry.  BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
15
Contents
Case Study: Translating 
Principles into Practice
The DASCP framework serves as a pragmatic approach 
for streamlining compliance in DAS transactions. Far 
from theoretical, these controls are derived from real-
world applications, demonstrating efficiency and 
adherence to regulatory standards. These controls ensure 
transactions not only adhere to legal standards and 
offer interoperability across platforms but also provide 
robust risk management, reflecting their adaptability 
and comprehensiveness amid global regulatory diversity.  This case study showcases the framework’s application 
in a scenario involving token issuance, transfer, and 
lending, where the risk management controls are 
seamlessly integrated into the digital asset transaction 
flow. This example presents the automation of 
numerous processes using digital assets, ensuring 
accurate controls, and reducing manual oversight. In translating these principles into practice, the 
figure on page 17 maps the controls applied at each 
transactional junction, demonstrating how specific 
risks are addressed through tailored controls. The 
central role of smart contracts is evident throughout the 
process, offering a robust means to automate intricate 
transaction sequences, ensure regulatory adherence, and 
protect the integrity of the loan’s data and functions.  The DASCP framework is designed for flexibility, allowing 
organizations to adapt high-level controls to their specific 
operational needs. This case study highlights how the 
framework supports customization to meet diverse 
organizational requirements effectively. It exemplifies 
how a regulatory aligned framework can be a powerful 
catalyst for operational efficiency, ultimately contributing 
to the maturation and growth of the DAS market.
BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
16
Contents
Custodian / 
Tokenization 
Agent
Private Network
Asset Manager 
(Private 
Equity Fund)
* Based on ERC 4626 tokenized 
vault standard
Custodian / 
Tokenization 
Agent
Asset Manager 
(Money Market 
Fund)
Public-Permissioned Network
Lending Pool
Securities 
Lending 
Smart Contract *
C19-S
C24-S
C28-S
C29-S
C31-S
C21-S
Investor 
(Borrower)
Distributor
C15-S
Principle
Risk
Control
Connectivity and Interoperability
R30 Interoperability Risk
C21-S Intraoperability 
between DLT Networks
Regulatory Compliance
R4 Unauthorized Investor Holdings
C15-S Investor Compliance 
and Access Control
Resilience and Security
R23 Asset Mismanagement
C19-S Smart Contract Entitlements
Operational Scalability
R32 Inability to Scale
C24-S Functions / Behaviors
Safeguarding Customer Assets
R28 Insufficient Smart 
Contract Control
C28-S Smart Contract Roles
C29-S Emergency Stop
C31-S Token Pause
Case Study Overview
The following pages provide more detail 
on the major steps and controls.  BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
17 Major steps:
Asset Tokenization
1
Token Transfer
2
KYC Enforcement
3
Money Market Fund (MMF) Issuance
4
MMF Tokenization for Lending
5
Collateral Deposit
6
Lending Pool Transactions
7  Automated Lending Operations
8
1
2
3 4
5
6 7 8  Contents
BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM 18 Description of major steps:

Asset Tokenization: 
An asset manager issues a private security, such as a private equity fund, which is then tokenized on a private blockchain by a custodian.
1 Token Transfer: The custodian moves the newly created PE (Private Equity) tokens from the private ledger to a public-permissioned ledger for wider distribution. 2 KYC Enforcement: 
As tokens are distributed, KYC compliance checks are performed to ensure all investors meet regulatory standards, despite the change in blockchain. 3
Money Market Fund (MMF) Issuance: In parallel, an asset manager issues a Money Market Fund. 4  MMF Tokenization for Lending: 
The custodian tokenizes the MMF shares and makes them available for lending in the Securities Lending Market. 5  Collateral Deposit: Investors with tokenized PE fund shares deposit these tokens into the lending pool to serve as collateral.  6
Lending Pool Transactions: 
Using the collateral provided, investors borrow more liquid assets (e.g., MMF shares) from the lending pool. 7  Automated Lending Operations: The lending process, powered by smart contracts, automates the workflow, including the deposit, loan issuance, and approval, and 
upon maturity, manages repayment and interest distribution and returns the securities to their original owners. 8 Contents
The chart below presents a detailed illustration of the DASCP controls in action, delineating the specific methods used for its implementation. While these 
examples highlight the controls’ functionality and the potential for smart contracts to reinforce the robustness of the DAS market, they are intended to 
serve as illustrations of what can be achieved. They are not prescriptive; organizations are encouraged to interpret and adapt controls to fit their unique 
environments, strategies, and compliance needs. This illustrative approach reaffirms the DASCP framework’s commitment to flexibility and its capacity to 
accommodate a diverse range of technologies and operational scenarios, ensuring its broad applicability and relevance across the financial industry.  Principle
Risk
Control
Smart Contract Control Activities
Connectivity and Interoperability
R30 Interoperability Risk: The risk 
pertains to the complexities of integrating 
digital assets with traditional financial 
systems and, potentially, multiple 
blockchain architectures (e.g., public, 
public-permissioned, and private) to 
ensure seamless transactions across 
the entire financial spectrum. C21-S Intraoperability Between DLT 
Networks: Adhere to industry-accepted 
cross-network communication protocols 
specifically designed for blockchain 
interoperability. This includes standardized 
protocols for asset representation, 
transaction formats, and data exchange 
between different blockchain networks, 
ensuring seamless and secure interactions 
across diverse blockchain platforms. Specific smart contracts and token 
standards, along with cross-chain 
interoperability protocols (lock / mint), 
ensure token transferability from one 
chain to another, adhering to both 
internal compliance and industry-
accepted cross-network communication 
protocols for asset representation, 
transaction formats, and data exchange. Regulatory Compliance
R4 Unauthorized Investor Holdings: 
Potential for regulatory noncompliance 
and financial repercussions if a non-
compliant or unauthorized investor holds 
or transfers a digital asset security.

This 
includes breaches of investor accreditation, 
investment caps, or other regulatory 
standards not related to AML or CTF.
C15-S Investor Compliance and Access 
Control: Implement mechanisms that 
only allow authorized investors that are 
in good compliance standing (e.g., KYC, 
sanctions, etc.) to hold registered securities 
while restricting others who are not, which 
could be facilitated by allow-lists, verifiable 
credentials, or other relevant protocols.  Smart contract checks the client’s 
wallet for required credentials and 
completes the transfer only if the investor 
is compliant with the fund terms.
BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
19
Contents
Principle
Risk
Control
Smart Contract Control Activities
Resilience and Security
R23 Asset Mismanagement: Digital 
assets are at risk of being lost, stolen, 
or erroneously transferred due to 
breaches in operational controls, 
system vulnerabilities, or inadequate 
asset management protocols.
C19-S Smart Contract Entitlements: 
Restrict access to smart contract data 
and functions based on standard 
roles using fine-grain entitlements. A smart contract, combined with a specific 
token standard, grants the lending 
decision to the lending pool, ensuring 
that only the lending pool can issue and 
approve a loan. This ensures immutability 
of roles, entitlement, and processes, thus 
eliminating the risk of unauthorized use 
or access to the loan’s data and functions. 
Operational Scalability
R32 Inability to Scale: DLT networks 
may not efficiently manage or scale 
to accommodate surging transaction 
volumes, impacting critical functions 
such as post-trade capture and overall 
transaction throughput (including suitable 
customer support), potentially degrading 
system performance and reliability. C24-S Functions / Behaviors: Conform 
to a common set of functions, behaviors, 
and service level agreements that support 
various security life cycle operations 
such as issuance and settlement.  Smart contracts enable automation and 
atomic settlement of transactions, which 
provides scalability to perform large 
volumes of standardized yet complex 
operations in seconds. For example, 
for the lending transaction, the smart 
contract performed six functions in 
one step (deposit, issuance, approval, 
deposit, hair-cutting, and pledging). Safeguarding Customer Assets
R28 Insufficient Smart Contract 
Control: A custodian and/or relevant 
intermediary does not have the requisite 
control over the digital asset securities /
tokens or smart contracts functions. C28-S Smart Contract Roles: Define 
standard roles to determine who can 
access smart contract data and functions. 
C29-S Emergency Stop: Ensure that 
smart contracts have an embedded 
kill switch or process to halt all 
activity, which can be accessed by a 
role with elevated permissions. 
C31-S Token Pause: Ensure that a user 
can freeze or pause activity for all or 
some of the token inventory, controlled 
by either the agent of the investor or 
a role with elevated permissions. Token standard and smart contract 
configuration were used to bring off-
chain KYC compliance rules into on-
chain token configuration, enabling the 
operations to halt or pause any token 
activity when participants did not match 
KYC criteria (e.g., jurisdiction). This ensured 
that only a role with elevated permission 
(compliance officer) could freeze or 
unfreeze activity over the token factory.

BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
20
Contents
Next Steps in the 
Evolution of the DASCP
To foster open dialogue and collective intelligence, 
we intend to engage the industry through a series 
of in-depth discussions involving key stakeholders 
from across the financial sector. These exchanges 
will serve as a platform to share insights and best 
practices, as well as to collaboratively address 
the concerns and challenges faced by various 
players in implementing the control principles. Also, we plan to transition the stewardship of the DASCP 
to an industry association, ensuring its continuous 
enhancement and compliance with global regulations.  Industry associations play a pivotal role in uniting market 
participants around common goals. This strategic 
move not only guarantees continuous improvement 
and expansion of the DASCP but also empowers the 
association to leverage it as a foundational document. 
This will facilitate the integration of secondary trading 
risks and controls, and the development of additional 
standards to bolster interoperability, security, and 
compliance in the digital asset securities landscape. 
We will continue to shape the market effectively 
as we build upon the foundation of our previous 
collaborative efforts that call for pioneering cash on-
chain initiatives and establishing new standards.9 
We are committed to continuously sharing insights 
and supporting adaptations of the DASCP to meet 
specific regional requirements, technology stacks, and 
operational environments. By disseminating these 
customizations within the community, we aim to 
accelerate the adoption and enhance the effectiveness 
of the DASCP across diverse financial ecosystems.
9DTCC, Clearstream, Euroclear, “Advancing the Digital Asset Era, Together,” 
Sept 2023
BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
21
Contents
A United Path Forward: 
The Imperative for 
Collective Action
It is important to recognize that the DASCP is 
just one of several critical components required 
for full-scale adoption. Ongoing developments 
in interoperability, cash on-chain initiatives, 
scalable solutions, and the formulation of strong 
business cases remain essential to achieving 
comprehensive integration and value realization.  We extend our gratitude to all participants whose 
engagement has been helpful in shaping a 
framework that promises to be both foundational 
and transformative. Integrating these principles 
into future standards will be vital for enhancing 
security, efficiency, and promoting broad-
based innovation within the industry.  We are committed to not just working together 
but to moving forward with a purpose. This is 
a call for industry-wide mobilization to support 
a vision. Let us unite in this endeavor to build a 
robust, integrated financial future. Together, we 
can advance the era of digital asset securities. BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
22
Contents
Appendix
BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
23
Contents
Complete Risk and 
Control Taxonomy 
The detailed descriptions of risks and controls, 
as well as a view on which risks are mitigated 
by which controls, is shown below. Detailed Risk Description:
To enhance the effectiveness of our framework, each 
risk is aligned with one of six principles, ranked from 
highest to lowest priority. (1) Legal Certainty is deemed 
the most urgent, while (6) Operational Scalability is 
considered the least.

This ranking does not diminish 
the importance of any principle, as all are required to 
establish a vibrant DAS ecosystem. When a risk could 
be associated with multiple principles, it is assigned 
to the principle of highest priority. By doing so, we 
not only ensure a concise framework presentation 
but also prioritize the risk management process. Detailed Controls Description:
Controls are mapped to the risks they 
are mitigating in a way that one control 
addresses either one or multiple risks. 
Download the Digital Asset 
Securities Control Principles. BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
24
Contents
L – Legal, S – Smart Contract Governance, R – Resilience and Data Protection, N – Network Settlement
Risks
R1 Digital Asset Legal 
Noncompliance
Risk of financial loss or other 
damages due to noncompliance 
with rapidly evolving global legal 
standards governing digital 
assets. This includes challenges 
in adapting to diverse regulatory 
environments, ensuring compliance 
across jurisdictions, and managing 
the complexities of integrating 
digital and conventional asset 
regulatory frameworks. Controls
C1-L Participation Guidelines: Establish fair and open but risk-based criteria (financial, jurisdictional, etc.) for user types and third-
party service providers permitted to participate in a product, program, or service offering. Include advanced due diligence and 
continuous compliance monitoring tailored to digital asset markets, ensuring alignment with evolving jurisdictional regulations. C2-L Product Eligibility: Identify clear standards and requirements for the product types (e.g., bonds) supported, 
including thorough due diligence for new listings and ongoing disclosure requirements. Ensure transparency about 
the financial and operational health of issuers to maintain regulatory compliance and inform stakeholders.  C3-L Network and Oracle Vetting: Conduct thorough checks on network and oracle alignment with DLT standards and governance 
structures before integrating third-party tools. Validate reliability and security SLAs for all networks and oracles rigorously. C4-L Participant Roles, Responsibilities, and Obligations: Clearly define and document service participants’ roles, responsibilities, 
and obligations, integrating geographic and identity-specific nuances to align with legal and operational standards by jurisdiction.
C5-L Service Providers’ Responsibilities / Limitation of Liability: Clearly document the roles, responsibilities, 
and obligations of the service provider and cover both legal and operational aspects of a given service. Moreover, 
provisions that describe limitations of liability for a given service provider must be clearly defined.
C6-L Terms and Conditions: Establish a legal basis for a service based on rules and/or contractual agreements that bind both the 
service provider and stakeholders. The terms of service should also establish the parameters for transfer, custody, control of assets 
consistent with applicable laws, regulations, and other regulatory requirements for the service provider and stakeholders. C7-L Governance: Define clear governance arrangements, detailing oversight and management of the service. C8-L Rule Enforcement and Arrangements: Monitor and enforce rules effectively, and maintain the authority to discipline, limit, suspend, 
or terminate participant activities, as well as to halt and resume transactions for certain assets (i.e., Security Tokens) as necessary.
C9-L Regulatory Approval and Oversight: Complete all required rule filings, no-action relief, 
or other regulatory approvals and notifications prior to implementation.

C46-N Data Lineage: Implement a comprehensive data lineage process for transactions and related data processes. This process must track the journey of data from its origin through all transformations and uses until its final state. 1. Legal Certainty
This figure shows the risks associated with the principle “Legal Certainty,” as well as the controls to mitigate these risks:
BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
25
Contents
Return to Principles 
overview on page 11
L – Legal, S – Smart Contract Governance, R – Resilience and Data Protection, N – Network Settlement
Risks
R2 Unclear Settlement 
Finality Settlement finality is not achieved 
or/and settlement status unclear. R3 Smart Contract 
Legal Enforceability
Differences in the legal status, 
recognition, and enforceability 
of smart contracts in various 
jurisdictions, which could impact 
cross-border transactions 
and asset custody. Controls
C32-R Audit Trail: Maintain a comprehensive record of digital asset events / transactions, both on-chain and relevant external activities, 
with precise synchronized time stamps. Enforce standards for synchronizing clocks across all DLT systems and external activity sources to 
ensure uniform time-stamping. The audit trail must support the full-system recovery and verification of the process for resilience purposes. C47-N Encumbrance Mechanism: Implement a process to encumber funds or securities, 
preventing double spending until the transaction is fully settled.
C48-N Settlement Proofs: Provide verifiable proof or evidence that different transaction legs 
were finalized, including their precise time stamps across various networks.  C49-N Fail to Settle Process: Implement procedures to reverse, cancel, or otherwise undo 
transactions and / or its economic impacts in the event of a settlement failure. C50-N Transaction Sequencing: Implement nonces and/or transaction sequencing models that 
ensure transactions are processed in the appropriate order and prevent replay attacks.
C51-N Cross Ledger Data and Inventory Balances: Track shared data and reconcile or balance inventory across networks. C4-L Participant Roles, Responsibilities, and Obligations: Clearly define and document service participants’ roles, responsibilities, 
and obligations, integrating geographic and identity-specific nuances to align with legal and operational standards by jurisdiction. C13-S Smart Contract Auditing Guidelines: Establish comprehensive guidelines for auditing smart contracts, which are designed 
as machine-executable legal agreements, to ensure not only their compliance with relevant laws but also to explicitly verify and 
reflect their enforceability terms. These guidelines should include detailed procedures for reviewing the legal and technical aspects 
of smart contracts to validate their ability to be enforced as per the terms set within them under applicable legal frameworks. C14-S Certification: Ensure that when smart contracts are deployed to networks that are governed by different parties, 
there are processes in place such that a trusted party can validate the integrity of a given smart contract.
1. Legal Certainty (continued)
BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM 26  Contents
Return to Principles 
overview on page 11
L – Legal, S – Smart Contract Governance, R – Resilience and Data Protection, N – Network Settlement
Risks
R4 Unauthorized 
Investor Holdings Potential for regulatory non-
compliance and financial 
repercussions if a noncompliant 
or unauthorized investor holds or 
transfers a digital asset security. 

This includes breaches of investor 
accreditation, investment caps, 
or other regulatory standards 
not related to Anti-Money 
Laundering (AML) and Counter-
Terrorist Financing (CTF).
R5 Money Laundering and 
Terrorist Financing Risks
Potential for misuse of the platform 
for obscuring illicit funds or funding 
terrorism, due to inadequate AML 
or CTF controls. This risk involves 
failure to implement effective KYC 
procedures, insufficient transaction 
monitoring, and noncompliance 
with mandatory financial 
reporting standards, leading to 
legal and reputational damage.  Controls
C10-L Asset Safeguarding and Segregation: Implement stringent controls to ensure customer assets are safeguarded 
and segregated from the custodian’s or broker-dealer’s own assets. This includes maintaining customer assets with a 
trusted, regulated custodian and establishing clear separation protocols to prevent asset commingling and misuse.
C15-S Investor Compliance and Access Control: Implement mechanisms that only allow authorized investors that 
are in good compliance standing (e.g., KYC, Sanctions, etc.) to hold registered securities, while restricting others 
who are not, which could be facilitated by allow lists, verifiable credentials, or other relevant protocols.
C16-S Multiparty Transaction Validation: Implement collaborative transaction validation mechanism that requires 
approvals from multiple authorized parties to enhance transaction security. This mechanism includes provisions for 
periodic updates to address emerging security challenges and maintain compliance with industry standards. C52-N Compliance and Policy Management: Implement and enforce transaction policies consistently 
across all networks. Include mechanisms to verify and record compliance for each transaction. C15-S Investor Compliance and Access Control: Implement mechanisms that only allow authorized investors that 
are in good compliance standing (e.g., KYC, Sanctions, etc.) to hold registered securities, while restricting others 
who are not, which could be facilitated by allow-lists, verifiable credentials, or other relevant protocols. C16-S Multiparty Transaction Validation: Implement collaborative transaction validation mechanism that requires 
approvals from multiple authorized parties to enhance transaction security. This mechanism includes provisions for 
periodic updates to address emerging security challenges and maintain compliance with industry standards. C7-L Governance: Define clear governance arrangements, detailing oversight and management of the service.
C8-L Rule Enforcement and Arrangements: Monitor and enforce rules effectively, and maintain the authority to discipline, limit, suspend, 
or terminate participant activities, as well as to halt and resume transactions for certain assets (i.e., Security Tokens) as necessary.
C52-N Compliance and Policy Management: Implement and enforce transaction policies consistently 
across all networks. Include mechanisms to verify and record compliance for each transaction.  2. Regulatory Compliance
This figure shows the risks associated with the principle “Regulatory Compliance,” as well as the controls to mitigate these risks:
BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
27
Contents
Return to Principles 
overview on page 11
L – Legal, S – Smart Contract Governance, R – Resilience and Data Protection, N – Network Settlement
Risks
R6 DLT Network Suitability 
/ Adaptability
The DLT network may currently be 
unsuitable, or struggle to align with 
the rapidly evolving technological 
standards and/or regulations required 
for managing digital asset securities 
(e.g., smart contracts may not be 
flexible enough to accommodate 
future regulatory changes, leading 
to potential noncompliance and/
or and operational inefficiencies).

R7 Digital Asset 
Regulatory 
Noncompliance Securities are noncompliant with 
varied and possibly conflicting 
securities regulations (e.g., codes 
of conduct, standards set by 
government bodies, or industry 
regulators) across disparate 
jurisdictions and asset classes.
Controls
C3-L Network and Oracle Vetting: Conduct thorough checks on network and oracle alignment with DLT standards and governance 
structures before integrating third-party tools. Validate reliability and security SLAs for all networks and oracles rigorously. C7-L Governance: Define clear governance arrangements, detailing oversight and management of the service.
C2-L Product Eligibility: Identify clear standards and requirements for the product types (e.g., bonds) supported, 
including thorough due diligence for new listings and ongoing disclosure requirements. Ensure transparency about 
the financial and operational health of issuers to maintain regulatory compliance and inform stakeholders.
C11-L Policies and Procedures: Document comprehensive policies and procedures that cover all aspects of business operations and IT 
functionalities, including protocols for blockchain management and smart contract deployment. Incorporate regular testing strategies 
such as simulations, stress tests, and security audits to ensure compliance with security standards and regulatory requirements.  Regularly update these policies and testing methods to align with technological advancements and regulatory changes.
C16-S Multiparty Transaction Validation: Implement collaborative transaction validation mechanism that requires 
approvals from multiple authorized parties to enhance transaction security. This mechanism includes provisions for 
periodic updates to address emerging security challenges and maintain compliance with industry standards.
C33-R Data Life Cycle Management: Manage and document the process of data 
collection, usage, transfer, storage, security, retention, and deletion.
C34-R Data Subject Access Rights Enforcement: Create privileged roles that have the right to access data, amend data, or respond to 
requests for a given person’s data to be erased and where appropriate, arrangements detailing oversight and management of the service.
2. Regulatory Compliance (continued)
BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
28
Contents
Return to Principles 
overview on page 11
L – Legal, S – Smart Contract Governance, R – Resilience and Data Protection, N – Network Settlement
Risks R8 Dispute Resolution
The risk that decentralized 
governance within DLT environments 
may hinder predictable dispute 
resolution across networks.
R9 Market Abuse
The risk of insufficient surveillance 
to prevent market manipulation, 
ensuring transparent and fair 
practices align with market 
integrity standards.
Controls
C4-L Participant Roles, Responsibilities, and Obligations: Clearly define and document service participants’ roles, responsibilities, 
and obligations, integrating geographic and identity-specific nuances to align with legal and operational standards by jurisdiction.
C17-S Dispute Resolution Mechanism: Implement a mechanism for dispute resolution that provides clear escalation paths 
and ensures consistent outcomes across DLT networks.
C8-L Rule Enforcement and Arrangements: Monitor and enforce rules effectively, and maintain the authority to discipline, limit, suspend, 
or terminate participant activities, as well as to halt and resume transactions for certain assets (i.e., Security Tokens) as necessary.
C35-R Event Monitoring and Alerts: Implement a system to monitor and audit operations in real time and automatically generate 
alerts.

Ensure that alerts are triggered based on predefined thresholds of key metrics to promptly identify and respond to operational 
anomalies or deviations from standard procedures. 2. Regulatory Compliance (continued)
BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
29
Contents
Return to Principles 
overview on page 11
L – Legal, S – Smart Contract Governance, R – Resilience and Data Protection, N – Network Settlement
3. Resilience and Security
This figure shows the risks associated with the principle “Resilience and Security,” as well as the controls to mitigate these risks: Risks
R10 Network Integrity
The integrity of the overall DLT 
network is compromised due to an 
attack, issue with the consensus 
algorithm, manipulated through 
nodes with supermajority power, etc.
R11 Network Traffic Attack
The DLT network cannot be 
accessed due to a network 
traffic attack such as Distributed 
Denial of Service (DDoS).
Controls
C3-L Network and Oracle Vetting: Conduct thorough checks on network and oracle alignment with DLT standards and governance 
structures before integrating third-party tools. Validate reliability and security SLAs for all networks and oracles rigorously.  C36-R Redundancy and Concurrency: Ensure technology resilience capabilities are in place to guarantee continuity of service and 
that there isn’t a single point of failure due to a logical loss of a major DLT / network node or loss of all nodes in a geographic region.
C37-R Backups: Regularly record and store copies of the ledger and service-related data to prevent 
loss of data integrity or availability due to destruction or corruption of data.
C38-R Failure Prevention, Detection and Recovery: Implement processes and mechanisms for detecting 
failures and seamlessly transitioning to backup systems to prevent disruptions and maintain data integrity. 
These processes entail reporting, recovering, and resolving several different types of failures.
C39-R Recovery Testing: Regularly simulate and validate recovery processes to ensure the system’s ability 
to restore data accurately and securely in the case of unexpected incidents, such as failures and crashes, to 
test the recovery performance of the system, including industry required performance testing.
C36-R Redundancy and Concurrency: Establish a legal basis for a service based on rules and/or contractual agreements that bind 
both the service provider and stakeholders. The terms of service should also establish the parameters for transfer, custody, control of 
assets consistent with applicable laws, regulations and other regulatory requirements for the service provider and stakeholders. C37-R Backups: Regularly record and store copies of the ledger and service-related data to prevent 
loss of data integrity or availability due to destruction or corruption of data.
C38-R Failure Prevention, Detection and Recovery: Implement processes and mechanisms for detecting 
failures and seamlessly transitioning to backup systems to prevent disruptions and maintain data integrity. These processes entail reporting, recovering, and resolving several different types of failures. C46-N Data Lineage: Implement a comprehensive data lineage process for transactions and related data processes. This 
process must track the journey of data from its origin through all transformations and uses until its final state. 

BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
30
Contents
Return to Principles 
overview on page 11
L – Legal, S – Smart Contract Governance, R – Resilience and Data Protection, N – Network Settlement
Risks
R12 Smart Contract 
Integrity
The integrity of the smart 
contract on the DLT network is 
compromised due to a code or 
external libraries vulnerabilities.
R13 Compromised  
Inter-Network Transfer
Inter-network asset transfer integrity 
is compromised.
R14 Poisoned Oracle
Off-chain data tampering from 
a compromised oracle (i.e., 
poisoned oracle scenario).
Controls
C14-S Certification: Ensure that when smart contracts are deployed to networks that are governed by different parties, 
there are processes in place such that a trusted party can validate the integrity of a given smart contract.
C16-S Multiparty Transaction Validation: Implement collaborative transaction validation mechanism that requires 
approvals from multiple authorized parties to enhance transaction security. This mechanism includes provisions for 
periodic updates to address emerging security challenges and maintain compliance with industry standards. C18-S Code Auditing: Ensure all smart contract code is tested for vulnerabilities, bugs, 
performance issues, or defects by an independent third-party auditor.
C32-R Audit Trail: Maintain a comprehensive record of digital asset events / transactions, both on-chain and relevant external activities, 
with precise synchronized time stamps. Enforce standards for synchronizing clocks across all DLT systems and external activity sources to 
ensure uniform time-stamping. The audit trail must support the full-system recovery and verification of the process for resilience purposes. C46-N Data Lineage: Implement a comprehensive data lineage process for transactions and related data processes. This 
process must track the journey of data from its origin through all transformations and uses until its final state.
C50-N Transaction Sequencing: Implement nonces and/or transaction sequencing models that ensure transactions are 
processed in the appropriate order and prevent replay attacks.
C51-N Cross Ledger Data and Inventory Balances: Track shared data and reconcile or balance inventory across networks.  C3-L Network and Oracle Vetting: Conduct thorough checks on network and oracle alignment with DLT standards and governance 
structures before integrating third-party tools. Validate reliability and security SLAs for all networks and oracles rigorously. C32-R Audit Trail: Maintain a comprehensive record of digital asset events / transactions, both on-chain and relevant external activities, 
with precise synchronized time stamps. Enforce standards for synchronizing clocks across all DLT systems and external activity sources to 
ensure uniform time-stamping. The audit trail must support the full-system recovery and verification of the process for resilience purposes. C35-R Event Monitoring and Alerts: Implement a system to monitor and audit operations in real time and 
automatically generate alerts. Ensure that alerts are triggered based on predefined thresholds of key metrics 
to promptly identify and respond to operational anomalies or deviations from standard procedures. 

3. Resilience and Security (continued)
BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
31
Contents
Return to Principles 
overview on page 11
L – Legal, S – Smart Contract Governance, R – Resilience and Data Protection, N – Network Settlement
R15 Private Data Leakage
Customers’ personal data or 
proprietary data is leaked or stolen.
R16 Exploited 
Consensus Algorithm
Consensus mechanism is exploited 
such that the network may 
function inappropriately, leading 
to unauthorized transfers of digital 
assets, unauthorized censorship 
of transactions, double-spending, 
or operational disruption to the 
transaction validation process.  C40-R Private Data Segregation: Segregate and restrict access to confidential data such as personal information, 
client-, and firm-specific proprietary data that should not be broadly available on a given network.  C41-R Anonymization and Pseudonymization: Anonymize or pseudonymize sensitive data to protect individual or entity privacy.
C42-R Identity Verification: Establish a system or process for verifying client identities and compliance status, which 
may include internal mechanisms, third-party digital identity verification services, or other suitable methods.
C46-N Data Lineage: Implement a comprehensive data lineage process for transactions and related data processes. This 
process must track the journey of data from its origin through all transformations and uses until its final state. 
C18-S Code Auditing: Ensure all smart contract code is tested for vulnerabilities, bugs, performance issues or defects 
by an independent third-party auditor.
C19-S Smart Contract Entitlements: Restrict access to smart contract data and functions based on standard roles 
using fine-grain entitlements.
C32-R Audit Trail: Maintain a comprehensive record of digital asset events / transactions, both on-chain and relevant external activities, 
with precise synchronized time stamps. Enforce standards for synchronizing clocks across all DLT systems and external activity sources to 
ensure uniform time-stamping. The audit trail must support the full-system recovery and verification of the process for resilience purposes. C35-R Event Monitoring and Alerts: Implement a system to monitor and audit operations in real time and 
automatically generate alerts. Ensure that alerts are triggered based on predefined thresholds of key metrics 
to promptly identify and respond to operational anomalies or deviations from standard procedures.
C20-S Quantum-Resistant Signature Algorithms: Implement a quantum-resistant signature algorithm, and a periodic audit process 
for reviewing and documenting quantum-resistant algorithms utilized within the system to ensure ongoing security efficacy 
against quantum threats. R17 Quantum 
Computing Threat Quantum computing is able to break 
asymmetric encryption and back into 
a private key from a public key.
3. Resilience and Security (continued)
Risks
Controls
BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
32
Contents
Return to Principles 
overview on page 11
L – Legal, S – Smart Contract Governance, R – Resilience and Data Protection, N – Network Settlement
R18

Interoperability 
Security Risks
Security vulnerabilities arising from 
connecting the digital asset platform 
with other blockchain networks 
or traditional financial systems.
R19 Network Outage
A singular event, such as a natural 
disaster, a common failure point, 
or a pervasive network issue, 
could simultaneously incapacitate 
multiple critical components, 
nodes, or networks, resulting in 
extensive operational disruptions 
and systemic instability.
C21-S Intraoperability Between DLT Networks: Adhere to industry-accepted cross-network communication protocols specifically 
designed for blockchain interoperability. This includes standardized protocols for asset representation, transaction formats, and data 
exchange between different blockchain networks, ensuring seamless and secure interactions across diverse blockchain platforms. C35-R Event Monitoring and Alerts: Implement a system to monitor and audit operations in realtime and 
automatically generate alerts. Ensure that alerts are triggered based on predefined thresholds of key metrics 
to promptly identify and respond to operational anomalies or deviations from standard procedures.
C36-R Redundancy and Concurrency: Ensure technology resilience capabilities are in place to guarantee continuity of service, and 
there isn’t a single point of failure due to a logical loss of a major DLT / network node or loss of all nodes in a geographic region.
C37-R Backups: Regularly record and store copies of the ledger and service-related data to prevent loss of data integrity 
or availability due to destruction or corruption of data.
C38-R Failure Prevention, Detection and Recovery: Implement processes and mechanisms for detecting failures and seamlessly 
transitioning to backup systems to prevent disruptions and maintain data integrity. These processes entail reporting, recovering, and 
resolving several different types of failures. C39-R Recovery Testing: Regularly simulate and validate recovery processes to ensure the system’s ability 
to restore data accurately and securely in the case of unexpected incidents, such as failures and crashes, to 
test the recovery performance of the system, including industry required performance testing. C43-R Geographical Distribution: Strategically distribute data across diverse geographic locations, within regulatory 
boundaries, to minimize the impact of regional disruptions and ensure systems can be operationally rotated.  3. Resilience and Security (continued)
Risks
Controls
BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
33
Contents
Return to Principles 
overview on page 11
L – Legal, S – Smart Contract Governance, R – Resilience and Data Protection, N – Network Settlement
R20 Smart Contract 
Defects
DLT smart contracts are 
not operational due to a 
software bug or defect. R21 Complexity of 
Change Management
The decentralized and immutable 
nature of DLT presents substantial 
challenges for network modifications. 

This risk particularly affects the 
platform’s ability to deploy new 
features, update smart contracts, 
or address vulnerabilities through 
software patches. The consensus 
requirement for changes introduces 
complexities in timely adaptation and 
innovation, making the management 
of software updates, enhancements, 
and security fixes inherently difficult.
C18-S Code Auditing: Ensure all smart contract code is tested for vulnerabilities, bugs, performance issues or defects 
by an independent third-party auditor.
C37-R Backups: Regularly record and store copies of the ledger and service-related data to prevent loss of data integrity 
or availability due to destruction or corruption of data.
C38-R Failure Prevention, Detection, and Recovery: Implement processes and mechanisms for detecting failures and seamlessly 
transitioning to backup systems to prevent disruptions and maintain data integrity. These processes entail reporting, recovering, 
and resolving several different types of failures. C39-R Recovery Testing: Regularly simulate and validate recovery processes to ensure the system’s ability to restore data accurately 
and securely in the case of unexpected incidents, such as failures and crashes, to test the recovery performance of the system, 
including industry required performance testing. C44-R Feature Deployment Process: Establish processes for deploying new features or updates that minimize 
disruption and ensure network integrity. C46-N Data Lineage: Implement a comprehensive data lineage process for transactions and related data processes. This process must 
track the journey of data from its origin through all transformations and uses until its final state.  3. Resilience and Security (continued)
Risks
Controls BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
34
Contents
Return to Principles 
overview on page 11
L – Legal, S – Smart Contract Governance, R – Resilience and Data Protection, N – Network Settlement
R22 Operational Errors
Errors, failures, or bottlenecks arise 
during the security life cycle as smart 
contract code does not conform 
to standard market practices. C21-S Intraoperability Between DLT Networks: Adhere to industry-accepted cross-network communication protocols specifically 
designed for blockchain interoperability. This includes standardized protocols for asset representation, transaction formats, and data 
exchange between different blockchain networks, ensuring seamless and secure interactions across diverse blockchain platforms. C22-S Token Specification Model: Define smart contract requirements through a human readable markup language 
that models smart contract specifications and can be easily understood by business, operations, and IT personas.
C23-S Data / Properties: Ensure data properties embedded into a smart contract conform to recognized nomenclature and 
conventions. Data must sufficiently identify and describe the security (e.g., standard security IDs) and incorporate or have access 
to the data required to process life cycle events.
C24-S Functions / Behaviors: Conform to a common set of functions, behaviors, and service level agreements that support 
various security life cycle operations such as issuance and settlement.
C25-S Bookkeeping: Conform to an accounting model that supports both private (non-publicly traded) and public (publicly 
traded) securities. Adapt the accounting model to comply with international digital asset securities reporting standards. C26-S Account Structure: Conform to a common model to represent investor accounts that delineate what accounts are 
customer vs. proprietary and have the appropriate level of attribution.

C35-R Event Monitoring and Alerts: Implement a system to monitor and audit operations in real time and 
automatically generate alerts. Ensure that alerts are triggered based on predefined thresholds of key metrics 
to promptly identify and respond to operational anomalies or deviations from standard procedures. C45-R Data Integrity Correction: Create privileged roles that can edit and modify data to ensure the accuracy, 
consistency, and reliability of financial records.  3. Resilience and Security (continued)
Risks
Controls
BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
35
Contents
Return to Principles 
overview on page 11
L – Legal, S – Smart Contract Governance, R – Resilience and Data Protection, N – Network Settlement
R23 Asset 
Mismanagement Digital assets are at risk of being lost, 
stolen, or erroneously transferred due 
to breaches in operational controls, 
system vulnerabilities, or inadequate 
asset management protocols. C10-L Asset Safeguarding and Segregation: Implement stringent controls to ensure customer assets are safeguarded 
and segregated from the custodian’s or broker-dealer’s own assets. This includes maintaining customer assets with a 
trusted, regulated custodian and establishing clear separation protocols to prevent asset commingling and misuse.
C16-S Multiparty Transaction Validation: Implement collaborative transaction validation mechanism that requires 
approvals from multiple authorized parties to enhance transaction security. This mechanism includes provisions for 
periodic updates to address emerging security challenges and maintain compliance with industry standards.
C19-S Smart Contract Entitlements: Restrict access to smart contract data and functions based on standard roles 
using fine-grain entitlements.
C32-R Audit Trail: Maintain a comprehensive record of digital asset events / transactions, both on-chain and relevant external activities, 
with precise synchronized time stamps. Enforce standards for synchronizing clocks across all DLT systems and external activity sources to 
ensure uniform time-stamping. The audit trail must support the full-system recovery and verification of the process for resilience purposes. C46-N Data Lineage: Implement a comprehensive data lineage process for transactions and related data processes. This 
process must track the journey of data from its origin through all transformations and uses until its final state. 3. Resilience and Security (continued)
Risks
Controls
BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
36
Contents
Return to Principles 
overview on page 11
L – Legal, S – Smart Contract Governance, R – Resilience and Data Protection, N – Network Settlement
R24 Immutable 
Transactions Due to the nature of immutable 
blockchains, if there is an error 
or processing issue, securities 
cannot be transferred back 
to the original owner. R25 Inadequate 
Managerial Oversight
The risk that operations are 
compromised due to insufficiently 
qualified management and/
or insufficient governance 
structures, potentially leading to 
operational vulnerabilities and 
regulatory noncompliance. C19-S Smart Contract Entitlements: Restrict access to smart contract data and functions based on standard roles 
using fine-grain entitlements.
C32-R Audit Trail: Maintain a comprehensive record of digital asset events / transactions, both on-chain and relevant external activities, 
with precise synchronized time stamps. Enforce standards for synchronizing clocks across all DLT systems and external activity sources to 
ensure uniform time-stamping. The audit trail must support the full-system recovery and verification of the process for resilience purposes.

C34-R Data Subject Access Rights Enforcement: Create privileged roles that have the right to access data, amend data, or 
respond to requests for a given person’s data to be erased, where appropriate. C4-L Participant Roles, Responsibilities, and Obligations: Clearly define and document service participants’ roles, responsibilities, 
and obligations, integrating geographic and identity-specific nuances to align with legal and operational standards by jurisdiction.
C10-L Asset Safeguarding and Segregation: Implement stringent controls to ensure customer assets are safeguarded 
and segregated from the custodian’s or broker-dealer’s own assets. This includes maintaining customer assets with a 
trusted, regulated custodian and establishing clear separation protocols to prevent asset commingling and misuse.
C35-R Event Monitoring and Alerts: Implement a system to monitor and audit operations in real time and 
automatically generate alerts. Ensure that alerts are triggered based on predefined thresholds of key metrics 
to promptly identify and respond to operational anomalies or deviations from standard procedures.
C53-N Continuous Management Education: Mandate ongoing training programs for management in digital asset 
security and regulatory compliance. Include fit and proper tests for management to strengthen oversight.  3. Resilience and Security (continued)
Risks
Controls
BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
37
Contents
Return to Principles 
overview on page 11
L – Legal, S – Smart Contract Governance, R – Resilience and Data Protection, N – Network Settlement
Risks
R26 Asset 
Misappropriation
There is misappropriation of 
digital asset securities through 
various means, including but not 
limited to code vulnerabilities, 
unauthorized actions by 
intermediaries, or fraudulent 
misuse of access privileges.  Controls
C4-L Participant Roles, Responsibilities, and Obligations: Clearly define and document service participants’ roles, responsibilities, 
and obligations, integrating geographic and identity-specific nuances to align with legal and operational standards by jurisdiction.
C10-L Asset Safeguarding and Segregation: Implement stringent controls to ensure customer assets are safeguarded 
and segregated from the custodian’s or broker-dealer’s own assets. This includes maintaining customer assets with a 
trusted, regulated custodian and establishing clear separation protocols to prevent asset commingling and misuse.
C16-S Multiparty Transaction Validation: Implement collaborative transaction validation mechanism that requires 
approvals from multiple authorized parties to enhance transaction security. This mechanism includes provisions for 
periodic updates to address emerging security challenges and maintain compliance with industry standards. C19-S Smart Contract Entitlements: Restrict access to smart contract data and functions based on standard roles 
using fine-grain entitlements.
C27-S Key Life Cycle Management: Implement a secure multiparty cryptographic system that ensures comprehensive 
key life cycle management. This system should include detailed protocols for the generation, distribution, storage, 
and secure destruction of cryptographic keys. Ensure that these key management practices rigorously prevent 
unauthorized access and are in full compliance with current regulatory standards for digital asset security. Additionally, 
incorporate regular reviews and updates to adapt to emerging security technologies and threats. C32-R Audit Trail: Maintain a comprehensive record of digital asset events / transactions, both on-chain and relevant external activities, 
with precise synchronized time stamps. Enforce standards for synchronizing clocks across all DLT systems and external activity sources to 
ensure uniform time-stamping.

The audit trail must support the full-system recovery and verification of the process for resilience purposes. 4. Safeguarding Customer Assets
This figure shows the risks associated with the principle “Safeguarding Customer Assets,” as well as the controls to mitigate these risks:  BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
38
Contents
Return to Principles 
overview on page 11
L – Legal, S – Smart Contract Governance, R – Resilience and Data Protection, N – Network Settlement
Risks
R27 Unauthorized Smart 
Contract Access
There is unauthorized manipulation 
or exploitation of smart contract 
functions due to factors such as 
technical vulnerabilities, inadequate 
access controls, and compromised security protocols . This includes 
but is not limited to unauthorized 
alterations to smart contract code, 
data breaches via smart contract 
interfaces, and exploitation of 
flaws in smart contract design. Controls
C10-L Asset Safeguarding and Segregation: Implement stringent controls to ensure customer assets are safeguarded 
and segregated from the custodian’s or broker-dealer’s own assets. This includes maintaining customer assets with a 
trusted, regulated custodian and establishing clear separation protocols to prevent asset commingling and misuse.
C19-S Smart Contract Entitlements: Restrict access to smart contract data and functions based on standard roles 
using fine-grain entitlements.
C27-S Key Life Cycle Management: Implement a secure multiparty cryptographic system that ensures comprehensive 
key life cycle management. This system should include detailed protocols for the generation, distribution, storage, 
and secure destruction of cryptographic keys. Ensure that these key management practices rigorously prevent 
unauthorized access and are in full compliance with current regulatory standards for digital asset security. Additionally, 
incorporate regular reviews and updates to adapt to emerging security technologies and threats. C32-R Audit Trail: Maintain a comprehensive record of digital asset events / transactions, both on-chain and relevant external activities, 
with precise synchronized time stamps. Enforce standards for synchronizing clocks across all DLT systems and external activity sources to 
ensure uniform time-stamping. The audit trail must support the full-system recovery and verification of the process for resilience purposes. C46-N Data Lineage: Implement a comprehensive data lineage process for transactions and related data processes. This 
process must track the journey of data from its origin through all transformations and uses until its final state. 
4. Safeguarding Customer Assets (continued)
BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
39
Contents
Return to Principles 
overview on page 11
L – Legal, S – Smart Contract Governance, R – Resilience and Data Protection, N – Network Settlement
R28 Insufficient Smart 
Contract Control
A custodian and/or relevant 
intermediary does not have 
the requisite control over the 
digital asset securities / tokens 
or smart contracts functions.
R29 Financial Institution 
Insolvency
A broker-dealer or custodian 
becomes insolvent, and protections 
are not in place to ensure customer 
assets are bankruptcy remote.
C16-S Multiparty Transaction Validation: Implement collaborative transaction validation mechanism that requires 
approvals from multiple authorized parties to enhance transaction security. This mechanism includes provisions for 
periodic updates to address emerging security challenges and maintain compliance with industry standards.

C19-S Smart Contract Entitlements: Restrict access to smart contract data and functions based on standard roles 
using fine-grain entitlements.
C28-S Smart Contract Roles: Define standard roles to determine who can access smart contract data and functions.
C29-S Emergency Stop : Ensure that smart contracts have an embedded kill switch or process to halt all activity, 
which can be accessed by a role with elevated permissions. C30-S Account Pause: Ensure that a user can freeze or pause activity for a given investor or wallet, 
controlled by either the agent of the investor or a role with elevated permissions. C31-S Token Pause: Ensure that a user can freeze or pause activity for all or some of the token inventory, 
controlled by either the agent of the investor or a role with elevated permissions.
C6-L Terms and Conditions: Establish a legal basis for a service based on rules and/or contractual agreements that bind both the 
service provider and stakeholders. The terms of service should also establish the parameters for transfer, custody, control of assets 
consistent with applicable laws, regulations, and other regulatory requirements for the service provider and stakeholders. C10-L Asset Safeguarding and Segregation : Implement stringent controls to ensure customer assets are safeguarded 
and segregated from the custodian’s or broker-dealer’s own assets. This includes maintaining customer assets with a 
trusted, regulated custodian and establishing clear separation protocols to prevent asset commingling and misuse.
C25-S Bookkeeping: Conform to an accounting model that supports both private (non-publicly traded) and public (publicly 
traded) securities. Adapt the accounting model to comply with international digital asset securities reporting standards. C26-S Account Structure: Conform to a common model to represent investor accounts that delineate 
what accounts are customer vs. proprietary and have the appropriate level of attribution. 4. Safeguarding Customer Assets (continued)
Risks
Controls
BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
40
Contents
Return to Principles 
overview on page 11
L – Legal, S – Smart Contract Governance, R – Resilience and Data Protection, N – Network Settlement
Risks
R30 Interoperability Risk
The risk pertains to the complexities 
of integrating digital assets with 
traditional financial systems and, 
potentially, multiple blockchain 
architectures (e.g., public, public 
-permissioned, and private) to 
ensure seamless transactions across 
the entire financial spectrum.  R31 Network Utilization 
and Fragmentation
The risk that a digital assets 
platform faces diminished 
operational viability and value 
due to low user engagement 
and transaction volume.
Controls
C21-S Intraoperability Between DLT Networks:  Adhere to industry-accepted cross-network communication protocols specifically 
designed for blockchain interoperability. This includes standardized protocols for asset representation, transaction formats, and data 
exchange between different blockchain networks, ensuring seamless and secure interactions across diverse blockchain platforms. C35-R Event Monitoring and Alerts: Implement a system to monitor and audit operations in real time and automatically generate 
alerts. Ensure that alerts are triggered based on predefined thresholds of key metrics to promptly identify and respond to operational 
anomalies or deviations from standard procedures.

C54-N Legacy Infrastructure Integration: Provide a method or abstraction layer that enables users to access their security holdings 
through either classic or new DLT infrastructure. C55-N Third-Party Integration Guidelines: Establish rigorous guidelines for third-party services integration to maintain security 
across interconnected platforms.
C56-N Community Engagement Framework: Ensure the existence of a stakeholder collaboration program that enhances risk 
management and platform security through active feedback and problem-solving channels. This program should provide specific 
forums and channels for feedback, issue reporting, and collaborative problem-solving. Establish best practices and shared standards 
through active feedback and collaborative initiatives. 5. Connectivity and Interoperability
This figure shows the risks associated with the principle “Connectivity and Interoperability,” as well as the controls to mitigate these risks: BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
41
Contents
Return to Principles 
overview on page 11
L – Legal, S – Smart Contract Governance, R – Resilience and Data Protection, N – Network Settlement
Risks
R32 Inability to Scale
DLT networks may not efficiently 
manage or scale to accommodate 
surging transaction volumes, 
impacting critical functions such 
as post-trade capture and overall 
transaction throughput (including 
suitable customer support), 
potentially degrading system 
performance and reliability. Controls
C21-S Intraoperability Between DLT Networks: Adhere to industry-accepted cross-network communication protocols specifically 
designed for blockchain interoperability. This includes standardized protocols for asset representation, transaction formats, and data 
exchange between different blockchain networks, ensuring seamless and secure interactions across diverse blockchain platforms.
C22-S Token Specification Model: Define smart contract requirements through a human readable markup language 
that models smart contract specifications and can be easily understood by business, operations, and IT personas.
C23-S Data / Properties: Ensure data properties embedded into a smart contract conform to recognized 
nomenclature and conventions. Data must sufficiently identify and describe the security (e.g., standard 
security IDs) and incorporate or have access to the data required to process life cycle events. C24-S Functions / Behaviors: Conform to a common set of functions, behaviors and service level 
agreements that support various security life cycle operations such as issuance and settlement.
C25-S Bookkeeping: Conform to an accounting model that supports both private (non-publicly traded) and public (publicly 
traded) securities. Adapt the accounting model to comply with international digital asset securities reporting standards. C26-S Account Structure: Conform to a common model to represent investor accounts that delineate 
what accounts are customer vs. proprietary and have the appropriate level of attribution. C28-S Smart Contract Roles: Define standard roles to determine who can access smart contract data and functions.
C29-S Emergency Stop: Ensure that smart contracts have an embedded kill switch or process 
to halt all activity, which can be accessed by a role with elevated permissions. 

C30-S Account Pause: Ensure that a user can freeze or pause activity for a given investor or wallet, 
controlled by either the agent of the investor or a role with elevated permissions.
C31-S Token Pause: Ensure that a user can freeze or pause activity for all or some of the token inventory, 
controlled by either the agent of the investor or a role with elevated permissions. C54-N Legacy Infrastructure Integration: Provide a method or abstraction layer that enables users 
to access their security holdings through either classic or new DLT infrastructure.  6. Operational Scalability This figure shows the risks associated with the principle “Operational Scalability,” as well as the controls to mitigate these risks:
BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
42  Contents Return to Principles 
overview on page 11
L – Legal, S – Smart Contract Governance, R – Resilience and Data Protection, N – Network Settlement
Risks
R33 Digital Asset Liquidity This risk arises from the rapid 
and substantial liquidity shifts in 
digital asset markets, potentially 
amplified by real-time settlement 
and other settlement methods.
R34 Reputational Risk
The inherent newness of DLT can 
enhance reputational risk due to 
its association with high-profile 
controversies and the potential 
for misuse. Public perception is 
influenced by DLT’s complex nature, 
often leading to misunderstandings 
and negative connotations 
from its early-use cases.  Controls
C35-R Event Monitoring and Alerts: Implement a system to monitor and audit operations in real time and 
automatically generate alerts. Ensure that alerts are triggered based on predefined thresholds of key metrics 
to promptly identify and respond to operational anomalies or deviations from standard procedures. C57-N Liquidity Management Strategies: Develop comprehensive strategies to actively manage liquidity levels for digital assets, 
ensuring the availability of sufficient resources to meet these needs in various market conditions. Incorporate regular stress 
testing to evaluate the robustness of liquidity under various market conditions and ensure the adequacy of these asset pools. C56-N Community Engagement Framework: Ensure the existence of a stakeholder collaboration program that 
enhances risk management and platform security through active feedback and problem-solving channels. This 
program should provide specific forums and channels for feedback, issue reporting, and collaborative problem-
solving. Establish best practices and shared standards through active feedback and collaborative initiatives. 6. Operational Scalability (continued)
BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
43
Contents
Return to Principles 
overview on page 11
L – Legal, S – Smart Contract Governance, R – Resilience and Data Protection, N – Network Settlement
Risks
R36 Inadequate 
Stakeholder / Client 
Understanding of Digital 
Asset Securities
Risks associated with inadequate 
educational and training programs 
for stakeholders and clients.

It 
emphasizes the essential need 
for comprehensive and effective 
training to ensure that all 
involved parties fully understand 
the technological frameworks, 
regulatory landscapes, and 
operational processes unique 
to digital asset securities.
R35 Market Inefficiency
The risk that structural issues 
or implementation frictions 
within the DLT ecosystem lead to 
significant disparities between the 
intrinsic value of digital assets and 
their market pricing, facilitating 
undue arbitrage opportunities.
Controls
C1-L Participation Guidelines: Establish fair and open but risk-based criteria (financial, jurisdictional, etc.) for user types and third-
party service providers permitted to participate in a product, program, or service offering. Include advanced due diligence and 
continuous compliance monitoring tailored to digital asset markets, ensuring alignment with evolving jurisdictional regulations. C3-L Network and Oracle Vetting: Conduct thorough checks on network and oracle alignment with DLT standards and governance 
structures before integrating third-party tools. Validate reliability and security SLAs for all networks and oracles rigorously. C7-L Governance: Define clear governance arrangements, detailing oversight and management of the service.
C11-L Policies and Procedures: Document comprehensive policies and procedures that cover all aspects of business operations and IT 
functionalities, including protocols for blockchain management and smart contract deployment. Incorporate regular testing strategies 
such as simulations, stress tests, and security audits to ensure compliance with security standards and regulatory requirements. Regularly update these policies and testing methods to align with technological advancements and regulatory changes. C18-S Code Auditing: Ensure all smart contract code is tested for vulnerabilities, bugs, performance issues or defects 
by an independent third-party auditor.
C12-L Education and Training for Stakeholders on Digital Asset Securities: Implement comprehensive education and training 
programs for all stakeholders involved with digital asset securities. These programs should cover the fundamental principles 
of digital assets, the associated technologies, regulatory compliance requirements, risk factors, and best practices.  6. Operational Scalability (continued)
BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM 44  Contents
Return to Principles 
overview on page 11
Contributors  This white paper is a synergistic collaboration between 
DTCC, Clearstream, and Euroclear, augmented by 
support from the Boston Consulting Group. The strategic 
direction and guidance originated from the Steering 
Committee, while the Working Group – consisting of 
industry experts and practitioners – drove the effort 
and provided oversight. In addition, the Steering 
Committee and Working Group would like to express 
their gratitude to the contributing partners for their 
expertise and for sharing their valuable perspectives 
during the development of the DASCP framework.  Steering Committee:
Nadine Chakar  
Managing Director and Global Head of DTCC Digital Assets
Jens Hachmeister  
Managing Director and Head of Issuer Services and 
New Digital Markets at Clearstream
Philippe Laurensy    
Managing Director and Head of Product Strategy and Innovation at Euroclear Kaj Burchardi 
Managing Director, BCG Platinion Netherlands
BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM 45 Contents Working Group Renée Berman Managing Director, DTCC Digital Assets Doug Meyers
Director, CSS Strategy, DTCC
Hitesh Goradia Director, Technology Research and Innovation
Robert Lanni
Analyst, DTCC Digital Assets
Thilo Derenbach Head of Sales and Business Development 
Digital Securities Services, Clearstream

Dr. Vic Arulchandran, Deutsche Börse
Director, Deutsche Boerse | Head of Digital 
Product and Market Design, Clearstream
Jorgen Ouaknine
Global Head of Innovation and 
Digital Assets, Euroclear
Stephanie Lheureux
Head of Digital Assets Excellence Center at Euroclear Frédéric Brugère Managing Director and Partner
Bernhard Kronfellner
Partner and Associate Director
Bob Baksa Associate Director Alexandre Lefoulon Principal IT Architect
BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
46
Contents
Contributing Partners
Inna Verdini 
Global Head of Digital Controls and 
Governance, State Street Digital
Sam ten Cate
Managing Director, 
State Street Digital
Justin McCormack
Senior Vice President, Head 
of State Street Digital Legal 
and Senior Managing Counsel, 
State Street Digital
Marianne Demarchi
Chief Executive EMEA, Swift
Maredith Hannon
Head of Business Development, 
Digital Assets, Wisdom Tree
Rohan Ranadive
Head of Risk Management, 
Digital Assets, WisdomTree
Siddharthan Rajagopalan
Business Architect - Advanced 
Technologies, Chief Technology 
Office, Barclays
Lee Braine
Managing Director - Advanced 
Technologies, Chief Technology 
Office, Barclays
Janina Farr
Head of Digital Strategy, BNY
Mark Raynes
Head of Solutions, Chainlink Labs
Angie Walker
Global Head of Banking and 
Capital Markets, Chainlink Labs
Eric Saraniecki
Digital Asset
Varun Paul Senior Director for FMIs and 
Blockchains, Fireblocks John Hallahan Director of Business 
Solutions, Fireblocks Nathalie Poli
Product Manager, Fnality
Olivier Portenseigne
Chief Executive Officer, FundsDLT
Paolo Brignardello
Chief Commercial Officer, FundsDLT
Ami Ben-David
Founder & CEO, Ownera
Natasha Benson
Chief Operating Officer, Ownera
Milena Kohlhofer Head of Sales & Partnerships, 
Americas, Ownera
Nicole Lefevre
Banking Sales Lead, R3
Marcus Van Abbé
Head of Digital Market Infrastructures, R3
Alisa DiCaprio Chief Economist, R3 Derek Neo Head of Depository, SGX BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
47  Contents  About DTCC, Clearstream, Euroclear, and BCG
With over 50 years of experience, DTCC is the premier post-trade market infrastructure for the global financial services industry. From 
20 locations around the world, DTCC, through its subsidiaries, automates, centralizes, and standardizes the processing of financial 
transactions, mitigating risk, increasing transparency, enhancing performance, and driving efficiency for thousands of broker-dealers, 
custodian banks, and asset managers. Industry-owned and governed, the firm innovates purposefully, simplifying the complexities of 
clearing, settlement, asset servicing, transaction processing, trade reporting, and data services across asset classes, bringing enhanced 
resilience and soundness to existing financial markets, while advancing the digital asset ecosystem. To learn more, visit dtcc.com.  Clearstream is the innovative and trusted post-trade business for the global markets. It runs the leading securities and funds servicing ecosystems of 
tomorrow. The company operates the German and Luxembourg central securities depositories and an international central securities depository for the 
Eurobonds market. With 18 trillion euros in assets under custody, it is one of the world’s largest settlement and custody firms for domestic and international 
securities. Its digital post-trade platform D7 provides a fully digital alternative to conventional physical issuance and processing of securities. It also 
delivers premier fund execution, distribution, data, and reporting services, covering over 55 fund markets worldwide. Clearstream is part of the Deutsche 
Börse Group, an international exchange organization and provider of innovative market infrastructures.

To learn more, visit us at clearstream.com.  Euroclear group is the financial industry’s trusted provider of post-trade services. Guided by its purpose, Euroclear innovates to bring safety, 
efficiency, and connections to financial markets to sustain economic growth. Euroclear provides settlement and custody to domestic 
and cross-border securities for bonds, equities and derivatives, and investment funds. As a proven, resilient capital market infrastructure, 
Euroclear is committed to delivering risk-mitigation, automation, and efficiency at scale for its global client franchise. The Euroclear 
group comprises Euroclear Bank, the International CSD, as well as Euroclear Belgium, Euroclear Finland, Euroclear France, Euroclear 
Nederland, Euroclear Sweden, Euroclear UK and International and MFEX by Euroclear. To learn more, visit euroclear.com.  Boston Consulting Group is a global consulting firm that partners with leaders in business and society to tackle their most important 
challenges and capture their greatest opportunities. BCG’s success depends on a spirit of deep collaboration and a global community 
of diverse individuals determined to make the world and each other better every day. To learn more, visit bcg.com.  This paper is intended for informational purposes only. The information contained herein does not constitute legal, investment, tax, regulatory or accounting advice and should not be relied upon for such purpose by any person 
or entity. Recipients of this paper should obtain guidance and/or advice, based on their own circumstances, from their own legal, investment, tax, regulatory or accounting advisors. The authors and contributors make no, and 
specifically disclaim all, representations and warranties as to title, non-infringement, accuracy, completeness, usefulness, or fitness for a particular purpose. Recipients bear all risk associated with their use of the paper and the 
information contained herein.  BUILDING THE DIGITAL ASSET SECURITIES ECOSYSTEM
48
Contents