Throughout this evolution, BlackRock has maintained its 
focus on managing assets on behalf of its clients, as well as 
providing risk management and advisory services. Clients 
include corporate, public and multi-employer pension plans, 
governments, insurance companies, official institutions, 
endowments, foundations, charities, corporations, banks, 
sovereign wealth funds, mutual funds, and individual savers 
around the world. Approximately two thirds of the assets 
BlackRock manages on behalf of clients relate to retirement. 
Global Expertise, Local Service
BlackRock is a global firm that combines the benefits of 
worldwide reach with local service and relationships. 
Investment centers in 25 cities (including New York, 
London, San Francisco, Tokyo, and Hong Kong) facilitate 
access to major capital markets. Likewise, account 
managers in over 70 cities across 34 countries in the 
Americas, Asia Pacific, Europe, the Middle East, and Africa 
deliver global expertise to our diverse client base. 
The assets BlackRock manages on behalf of clients include 
cash, fixed income, equity, alternatives and multi-asset 
class mandates. In addition, the AUM reflects approximately 
US $1.7 (€1.5) billion in advisory mandates, including long-
term portfolio liquidation assignments. 
Independent Asset Manager
The firm has been listed on the New York Stock Exchange 
under the symbol “BLK” since 1999.  In April 2011, 
BlackRock was added to the S&P 500 Index, reflecting both 
the valuation of the company and the broad ownership of its 
stock. BlackRock is an independently managed public 
company with no single majority stockholder. The PNC 
Financial Services Group, Inc. has a minority ownership 
stake in BlackRock with the remainder owned by 
institutional and individual investors, as well as BlackRock 
employees.  Independent directors comprise the majority of 
the BlackRock board of directors. 
VIEWPOINT
FEBRUARY 
2019
BlackRock:
Worldwide Leader in Asset and 
Risk Management
BlackRock is known as one of the largest asset managers 
globally, but our size says little about our structure, risk 
profile, history, culture, or how we function today.  In this 
ViewPoint, we provide an overview of our organization and 
discuss the factors that differentiate the asset management 
industry more generally, and BlackRock specifically, from 
other financial institutions.
Overview
BlackRock was founded in New York in 1988 by eight 
partners, four of whom remain active in the firm today. 
BlackRock has grown from a start-up to a market leader by
attracting clients and employees, and by acquiring several 
other asset management companies. 
The opinions and information stated herein are as of February 2019 and may change as subsequent conditions vary.
• Established in 1988
• Public since 1999; NYSE: BLK
• Independent with no majority shareholder
• US $5.97 (€5.22) trillion assets under management (AUM)
• Approximately 14,900 employees
• Over 2,000 investment professionals
• Offices in over 30 countries and 25 primary investment 
centers globally
BlackRock’s mission is to create a better 
financial future for our clients, by building 
the most respected investment and risk 
manager in the world.
Source: BlackRock, data as of 31 December 2018.
Numbers may not add up to 100% due to rounding
*Includes commodity and currency mandates
BlackRock at a Glance
Equity
50.9%
Fixed Income
30.9%
Multi-asset
7.9%
Alternatives*
2.5%
Cash 
Management
7.7%
Advisory
0.03%

What Distinguishes Asset Managers 
Within the Financial Industry?
The Agency Model
Asset managers are characterized by a business model that 
is fundamentally different than other financial institutions, 
such as commercial banks, investment banks, insurance 
companies and government-sponsored entities.  Asset 
managers differ from most other financial firms in that they 
act as agents managing other people’s money.  While asset 
managers do not use their balance sheets in the ordinary 
conduct of their business, other financial companies such as 
banks engage in activities involving significant levels of 
balance sheet risk.  
2
Key Dates in BlackRock History
The Asset Management Business
Fiduciary to Clients
Asset managers, also known as investment managers, are 
hired by asset owners to invest assets on their behalf.  As 
such, asset managers act as fiduciaries, which means acting 
in the best interests of the client and faithfully executing the 
investment mandate provided by the client.  Asset managers 
invest within the guidelines specified by their clients for a 
given mandate, as set out in the investment management 
agreement (IMA) or established by the offering or constituent 
documents that establish the fund.  Importantly, the invest-
ment results, whether positive or negative, belong to the client.
Client Assets held by Custodians
The assets under management (AUM) are owned by clients.  
They are generally held by third-party custodians selected 
by – and with contractual obligations to – these clients.  The 
third-party custodian maintains the official books and records 
and facilitates trade settlement with counterparties.  As such, 
asset managers do not have physical control or direct 
access to clients’ assets.  Likewise, the client, not the asset 
manager, is the counterparty to trades.  Consequently, asset 
managers have small balance sheets relative to other types 
of financial institutions.
Stable Income and Alignment of Interests
Asset managers are generally paid fees for services on a set 
schedule applied to client AUM.  As a result, the asset 
managers' interests are aligned with their clients’.  This fee 
structure generates a more stable income stream than that 
of a transaction-oriented financial institution. Also, asset 
managers generally have little debt on their balance sheets 
and they do not rely on short-term funding markets.
ASSET MANAGERS DO:
• Act on behalf of clients
• Rely on a generally stable fee-based income stream
• Receive regulatory oversight at both the manager and 
portfolio levels 
ASSET MANAGERS DO NOT:
• Invest with their own balance sheets by engaging in 
principal trades 
• Employ balance sheet leverage
• Guarantee investor principal, nor do they offer a 
government guarantee or backing
• Provide liquidity for funds
• Have access to central bank liquidity

1 US Government Accountability Office; Office of Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program; US Department of Treasury. 
*Rank by number of employees. Data as of 31 December 2018.
**Includes United States, Canada, Central America, and South America
For example, investment banks act as principal in trading, 
market-making and prime brokerage; finance companies 
access the capital markets for funds and re-lend these 
monies; and insurance companies provide long-term 
financing for real estate and other hard assets as part of their 
asset-liability management. 
Another critical difference between a commercial bank and 
an asset manager is the absence of reliance on government 
guarantees or support.  Banks accept deposits that, in the 
US, are then insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation and, in the EU, are obliged to participate in 
national deposit guarantee schemes.  Asset managers, 
meanwhile, clearly disclose to clients that investment 
performance is not guaranteed by the manager, the 
government, or any other party. 
These distinctions were critically important in shielding asset 
management companies from much of the turmoil that 
occurred during the Global Financial Crisis of 2008.  Notably, 
no asset manager was among the 700 US financial 
institutions that received a direct investment under the 
Troubled Asset Relief Program Capital Purchase Program.1
Asset Management Products
Investment strategies can be offered in a variety of 
structures, which can be broken down into two main 
categories – collective investment vehicles (CIVs) and 
separate accounts.
Collective Investment Vehicles 
CIVs play an important role in many clients’ portfolios.  Some 
clients prefer these investment vehicles for the diversification 
they provide.  Examples of CIVs include mutual funds, 
Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable 
Securities (UCITS), exchange-traded funds (ETFs), 
collective trust funds, hedge funds, and alternative 
investment funds (AIFs). 
CIVs are typically subject to a robust set of regulatory 
requirements that can differ by the type of client able to 
invest in the fund (e.g., individual or institutional) and the 
jurisdiction(s) in which the fund is offered. Examples of 
regulatory regimes that CIVs are subject to include the 
Investment Company Act of 1940 in the US or the UCITS V 
Directive in the European Union (EU).  CIVs are separate 
legal entities from the asset manager.  They are typically 
overseen by a board of directors or equivalent (such as 
trustees).
Separate Accounts
Separate accounts are individual portfolios managed for a 
single client – they can be thought of as a ‘fund for one’. 
Since the client is the legal owner of the assets in the 
separate account, these portfolios are subject to the 
regulation that the client is subject to.  Asset managers hired 
to manage separate accounts in the EU, Iceland, 
Lichtenstein, and Norway are likely to comply with MiFID II, 
and with the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 for separate 
accounts managed in the US. 
3
BlackRock’s Largest Locations
Americas (over 7,700 employees)**
1
New York, NY
United States
2
San Francisco, CA
United States
3
Wilmington, DE
United States
4
Princeton, NJ
United States
5
Seattle, WA
United States
6
Boston, MA
United States
7
Mexico City
Mexico
8
Los Angeles, CA
United States
9
Toronto
Canada 
10
Philadelphia, PA
United States
Europe (over 4,100 employees)
1
London
United Kingdom
2
Edinburgh
United Kingdom
3
Budapest
Hungary  
4
Zurich
Switzerland 
5
Frankfurt 
Germany
6
Dublin
Ireland
7
Milan
Italy
8
Amsterdam
Netherlands
9
Paris
France 
10
Munich
Germany
Asia Pacific (over 3,000 employees)
1
Gurgaon
India
2
Hong Kong
China
3
Singapore
Singapore
4
Tokyo
Japan
5
Mumbai
India 
6
Sydney
Australia
7
Taipei
Taiwan
8
Shanghai 
China 
9
Bangalore 
India 
10
Seoul
South Korea 
Rank*
City
Country

Regulation of Asset Managers and 
Asset Management 
Asset managers are subject to comprehensive regulation 
that includes regular examinations and reporting requiring 
them to establish and maintain extensive risk management 
and compliance policies and procedures.  
In the US
The Securities and Exchange Commission is the primary 
regulator of asset managers that are registered as 
investment advisors.  Asset managers that operate trust 
banks are overseen by the Office of the Comptroller of the 
Currency if federally chartered, and by state banking 
authorities if state chartered.
Many asset managers are also subject to regulation by the 
Department of Labor under the Employee Retirement 
Income Security Act for work on behalf of certain pension 
plans and by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission if 
they invest client funds in commodities or certain derivatives 
instruments.  The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and 
Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank), enacted in July 
2010, introduced a host of new rules that provide for 
enhanced reporting, oversight and transparency for financial 
instruments and financial institutions, including asset 
managers.
In Asia-Pacific
National authorities in the Asia-Pacific region regulate asset 
managers and asset management products. Regulatory 
agencies in the region include the Japan Financial Services 
Agency, the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission, 
the Australian Securities and Investments Commission, the 
Monetary Authority of Singapore, the China Securities 
Regulatory Commission, the Korean Financial Services 
Commission, the Taiwan Financial Supervisory Commission, 
and the Securities and Exchange Board of India. 
What Differentiates BlackRock?
Stand-alone Investment Management Company
BlackRock was founded as a stand-alone investment 
management company focused on providing asset and risk 
management services to clients.  The firm brings together 
expertise across capital market sectors as well as asset 
allocation, portfolio management, financial modeling, and 
risk management disciplines. 
Culture   
At BlackRock, we understand culture as our shared 
understanding of who we are, what we stand for and how we 
conduct ourselves. 
BlackRock’s culture has been a key part of its success since 
it was established in 1988. BlackRock’s culture is defined 
through the BlackRock Principles, which guide employees 
on how best to achieve the firm’s mission to create a better 
financial future for its clients.  Its unifying focus on One 
BlackRock has been fundamental to the firm’s constant 
innovation, thirst for technological solutions and focus on risk 
management, combined with an unwavering fiduciary 
responsibility to clients and a commitment to client service.
We operate our business with a fiduciary responsibility, 
which means to act in the best interest of our clients.  Their 
trust and confidence in us is our most valuable asset, and 
we seek to earn it every day. 
. 
4
In Europe
The vast majority of the legislation that underpins the 
regulatory environment for asset managers and their activities 
in the EU is agreed upon at the pan-European level.  
Common European rules create the legislative conditions for 
the Single Market in goods, services and people in the EU.  
Once agreed at the pan-EU level, legislation is subsequently 
implemented at the national level by Member States, i.e. the 
countries that are part of the EU. EU-based asset managers 
are subject to, among other pieces of regulation, the UCITS 
Directive (which allows mainstream CIVs to be sold cross-
border), the AIFM Directive (ruling alternative investment 
managers and their funds); and MiFID II (on investment 
management services and transaction reporting, among 
many other things). 
The supervision of asset managers and their services in 
Europe continues to be carried out by national authorities, 
such as the Financial Conduct Authority in the UK, the 
Federal Financial Supervisory Authority in Germany, the 
Autorité des Marchés Financiers in France and the Authority 
for the Financial Markets in the Netherlands.
The BlackRock Principles
• We are a Fiduciary
• We are passionate about Performance
• We are One BlackRock
• We are Innovators

We are passionate about our work and intensely focused on 
performing at the highest levels. We take emotional 
ownership of every aspect of the work we do. We prize 
strong subject matter expertise and an insatiable appetite to 
learn. The firm’s unifying focus on One BlackRock means 
we challenge ourselves – and each other – to collectively 
raise our game. The best solutions result from the ideas and 
contributions of a diverse team of partners. 
Continuous innovation helps us bring the best of BlackRock 
to our clients. This requires that we are respectfully anti-
bureaucratic, and that we challenge the status quo.
State-of-the-art Proprietary Risk Analysis Technology 
An integral part of BlackRock’s identity is the core belief that 
rigorous risk management is critical to the delivery of high-
quality asset management services. 
5
The firm’s leaders identified a growing gap between the sell-
side and the buy-side, and had a vision for a tool that asset 
managers needed to prudently manage risk.
Having determined in 1988 that no existing system adequately 
fulfilled this need, BlackRock designed and built a proprietary 
state-of-the-art system, which evolved into the technology 
platform known as BlackRock Solutions® (see overleaf). 
Today, portfolio managers throughout BlackRock have access 
to proprietary technology which enables them to make better 
informed decisions. These tools can analyze individual 
securities, aggregate a portfolio of securities, and compare 
that portfolio and its risk characteristics to an index or another 
relevant benchmark.
GLOBAL PUBLIC POLICY GROUP
In the last decade in particular, policy and regulation have shaped the landscape in which asset owners and their asset 
managers operate.  BlackRock believes engaging on financial regulatory reform is important for our end-clients, the end-
investors, who provide capital to the real economy. 
BlackRock’s Global Public Policy Group regularly and actively engages in discussions with policymakers on a wide range 
of financial regulatory topics. We support the creation of a regulatory regime that increases transparency, protects 
investors and facilitates responsible growth of capital markets, while preserving consumer choice and assessing benefits 
versus implementation costs. Our views on policy issues, discussed at the global, regional or national level (in the form of 
responses to public consultations and white papers called ViewPoints) are available on the Public Policy website. 
BLACKROCK INVESTMENT STEWARDSHIP
BlackRock Investment Stewardship contributes to the mission of creating a better financial future for our clients by 
monitoring and engaging with companies around the globe to encourage them to adopt business practices consistent with 
sustainable long-term value creation. 
The BlackRock Investment Stewardship team, made up of over 40 professionals, has a local presence. We work in offices 
across the Americas, Europe, and the Asia-Pacific region in order to gain investment insight at the local level, collectively 
voting approximately 17,000 meetings annually. The team is responsible for:
• Protecting and enhancing the value of clients' assets through engagement with companies, including proxy voting, in 
clients’ best long-term economic interests
• Encouraging business and management practices that in our experience support sustainable financial performance 
over the long term
• Providing insight on environmental, social and governance considerations to BlackRock’s investment strategies, 
whether indexed or actively managed
• Engaging clients to build understanding of our work and how it aligns with the firm’s mission 
• Participating in market-level dialogue to understand and contribute to the development of policies and practices that 
support long-term investing and value creation 
The team’s engagement priorities, guidelines, voting and engagement reports, and commentaries are publicly available 
on the Investment Stewardship website.

6
RELATED CONTENT
A complete library of ViewPoint public policy papers, comment letters, and responses to consultations prepared by BlackRock is available at 
www.blackrock.com/publicpolicy. 
BLACKROCK SOLUTIONS®
Risk-informed investment management requires the right tools to assess security- and portfolio-level risks, to rebalance 
portfolios to meet portfolio manager objectives, and to process transactions efficiently.  As a result, BlackRock developed 
an integrated suite of investment management tools designed to be used by BlackRock’s investment professionals.  
Starting in 2000, BlackRock began offering those risk analytics and trade processing tools, as well as advisory services, 
to external clients under the BlackRock Solutions® brand. 
Risk Analysis and Investment Processing Tools
The Aladdin® Institutional Business delivers our risk analysis and investment processing tools, known as Aladdin®, to 
institutional clients including asset managers, insurers, banks, pensions, and official institutions.  Aladdin® allows client
organizations to combine risk analytics, order management, and trade processing on a single platform. This can help 
eliminate redundant data input across multiple systems, enhance data integrity through shared and transparent 
information, and increase operating efficiencies and controls.
Whilst proprietary technology platforms may help manage risk, risk cannot be eliminated.
FINANCIAL MARKETS ADVISORY GROUP
The Financial Markets Advisory Group (FMA) advises clients in managing their capital markets exposure and businesses.  
FMA focuses on enterprise risk management, regulatory reporting support, complex financial modeling, balance sheet 
and financial strategy development, and specialized asset management and transaction support services.  The FMA 
team uses customized analytical and modeling techniques, as well as BlackRock Solutions® suite of data management, 
financial modeling and risk management tools in executing these advisory engagements.
BLACKROCK INVESTMENT INSTITUTE
The BlackRock Investment Institute (BII) helps BlackRock’s portfolio managers become even better investors and 
produces thought-provoking investment-related content for clients and policymakers. The BII team comprises over 30 
investment professionals spread around the globe. We work closely with investment, economic, policy and political 
experts across BlackRock to ensure our insights capture the best of BlackRock’s thinking.
The BII team is responsible for:
• Providing connectivity between BlackRock’s portfolio managers to help them debate and tackle key investment issues 
• Originating economic and markets research, including developing proprietary BlackRock tools that aim to gauge where 
key macro indicators are heading
• Developing investment and asset allocation views for clients across regions and asset classes that reflect the thinking 
of BlackRock’s leading portfolio managers
• Creating client publications and data visuals that highlight BlackRock’s best investment thinking, and showcase our 
thought leadership in investing, risk management, portfolio construction and trading solutions
The BII’s various reports, bulletins and papers are publicly available on the BlackRock Investment Institute website. 

This publication represents the regulatory and public policy views of BlackRock. The opinions expressed herein are as of February 2019 and are subject
to change at any time due to changes in the market, the economic or regulatory environment or for other reasons. The information in this publication
should not be construed as research or relied upon in making investment decisions with respect to a specific company or security or be used as legal
advice. Any reference to a specific company or security is for illustrative purposes and does not constitute a recommendation to buy, sell, hold or directly
invest in the company or its securities, or an offer or invitation to anyone to invest in any BlackRock funds and has not been prepared in connection with
any such offer. There is no guarantee that any forecasts made will come to pass. Reliance upon information in this material is at the sole discretion of
the reader.
In the U.S., this material is intended for public distribution. In the EU, issued by BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited (authorised and
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority). Registered office: 12 Throgmorton Avenue, London, EC2N 2DL. Registered in England No. 2020394. Tel:
020 7743 3000. For your protection, telephone calls are usually recorded. BlackRock is a trading name of BlackRock Investment Management (UK)
Limited. This material is for distribution to Professional Clients (as defined by the FCA Rules) and Qualified Investors and should not be relied upon by
any other persons. For qualified investors in Switzerland, this material shall be exclusively made available to, and directed at, qualified investors as
defined in the Swiss Collective Investment Schemes Act of 23 June 2006, as amended. Issued in the Netherlands by the Amsterdam branch office of
BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited: Amstelplein 1, 1096 HA Amsterdam, Tel: 020 - 549 5200. In South Africa, please be advised that
BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited is an authorised Financial Services provider with the South African Financial Services Board, FSP No.
43288. In Dubai: This information can be distributed in and from the Dubai International Financial Centre (DIFC) by BlackRock Advisors (UK) Limited —
Dubai Branch which is regulated by the Dubai Financial Services Authority (‘DFSA’) and is only directed at ‘Professional Clients’ and no other person
should rely upon the information contained within it. Neither the DFSA or any other authority or regulator located in the GCC or MENA region has
approved this information. This information and associated materials have been provided to you at your express request, and for your exclusive use.
This document is not intended for distribution to, or use by, any person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution would be unlawful
under the securities laws of such. Any distribution, by whatever means, of this document and related material to persons other than those referred to
above is strictly prohibited. In Singapore, this is issued by BlackRock (Singapore) Limited (Co. registration no. 200010143N). In Hong Kong, this
material is issued by BlackRock Asset Management North Asia Limited and has not been reviewed by the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong
Kong. In Korea, this material is for Professional Investors only. In Japan, this is issued by BlackRock Japan. Co., Ltd. (Financial Instruments Business
Operator: The Kanto Regional Financial Bureau. License No375, Association Memberships: Japan Investment Advisers Association, the Investment
Trusts Association, Japan, Japan Securities Dealers Association, Type II Financial Instruments Firms Association.) for Professional Investors only
(Professional Investor is defined in Financial Instruments and Exchange Act). In Taiwan, independently operated by BlackRock Investment
Management (Taiwan) Limited. Address: 28/F, No. 95, Tun Hwa South Road, Section 2, Taipei 106, Taiwan. Tel: (02)23261600. In Australia, issued by
BlackRock Investment Management (Australia) Limited ABN 13 006 165 975, AFSL 230 523 (BIMAL). This material is not a securities recommendation
or an offer or solicitation with respect to the purchase or sale of any securities in any jurisdiction. The material provides general information only and
does not take into account your individual objectives, financial situation, needs or circumstances. Before making any investment decision, you should
therefore assess whether the material is appropriate for you and obtain financial advice tailored to you having regard to your individual objectives,
financial situation, needs and circumstances. BIMAL, its officers, employees and agents believe that the information in this material and the sources on
which it is based (which may be sourced from third parties) are correct as at the date of publication. While every care has been taken in the preparation
of this material, no warranty of accuracy or reliability is given and no responsibility for the information is accepted by BIMAL, its officers, employees or
agents. Any investment is subject to investment risk, including delays on the payment of withdrawal proceeds and the loss of income or the principal
invested. While any forecasts, estimates and opinions in this material are made on a reasonable basis, actual future results and operations may differ
materially from the forecasts, estimates and opinions set out in this material. No guarantee as to the repayment of capital or the performance of any
product or rate of return referred to in this material is made by BIMAL or any entity in the BlackRock group of companies. In China, this material may not
be distributed to individuals resident in the People's Republic of China ("PRC", for such purposes, excluding Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan) or entities
registered in the PRC unless such parties have received all the required PRC government approvals to participate in any investment or receive any
investment advisory or investment management services. For other APAC countries, this material is issued for Institutional Investors only (or
professional/sophisticated/qualified investors, as such term may apply in local jurisdictions) and does not constitute investment advice or an offer or
solicitation to purchase or sell in any securities, BlackRock funds or any investment strategy nor shall any securities be offered or sold to any person in
any jurisdiction in which an offer, solicitation, purchase or sale would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. In Canada, this material
is intended for permitted clients only. In Latin America and Iberia, this material is for educational purposes only and does not constitute investment
advice nor an offer or solicitation to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any shares of any fund (nor shall any such shares be offered or sold to any
person) in any jurisdiction in which an offer, solicitation, purchase or sale would be unlawful under the securities law of that jurisdiction. If any funds are
mentioned or inferred to in this material, it is possible that some or all of the funds have not been registered with the securities regulator of Brazil, Chile,
Colombia, Mexico, Panama, Peru, Portugal, Spain, Uruguay or any other securities regulator in any Latin American country and thus might not be
publicly offered within any such country. The securities regulators of such countries have not confirmed the accuracy of any information contained
herein. The information provided here is neither tax nor legal advice.
No part of this material may be copied, photocopied or duplicated in any form by any means, or redistributed without the prior written consent of
BlackRock Inc.
© 2019 BlackRock, Inc. All Rights Reserved. BLACKROCK is a registered trademark of BlackRock, Inc. All other trademarks are those of their
respective owners.

