WHAT’S INSIDE
Digital Asset Basics
Digital Assets in a Portfolio
Custody Considerations
About Fidelity Digital Assets℠
Introduction 
to Digital Assets
FOR INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS
A guide to digital assets and the investment landscape for institutions
Table of Contents
Digital Asset Basics	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
3.
Introduction
What are:
Digital Assets
DeFi
Stablecoins
Non-Fungible Tokens
Scaling Solutions
Digital Assets in a Portfolio	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
10.
Digital Asset Considerations 
Direct Investments
Managed Investment Products
Additional Digital Asset Considerations
Direct Investment
Get Started with Fidelity Digital Assets℠	
	
	
	
	
16.
2
A guide to digital assets and the investment landscape for institutions
3
Introduction
Digital assets have seen a steady uptick in popularity in recent years, particularly 
among institutional investors. This clear and distinct growth in interest in digital assets 
has driven many to consider what an allocation for their business or clients could look 
like. Investors come to Fidelity Digital Assets℠ with varying knowledge levels and 
experience, and it is our job at Fidelity Digital Assets℠ to help guide them through 
every stage of their investment journey. 
In this piece, we will introduce the most popular digital 
asset concepts and provide a road map for those looking 
to understand the market and evaluate making an 
allocation to digital assets.
Let’s start with Bitcoin
We believe it is useful for investors to begin their digital asset education by first 
understanding Bitcoin and the impact of its technology. Bitcoin was created in 2009 by 
Satoshi Nakamoto, a pseudonymous person or group of people. The Bitcoin white paper 
describes a decentralized payment system powered by a network of “miners” running an 
algorithm. It also defines a fixed supply of 21 million bitcoin and a deflationary “halving” 
mechanism. In this halving, the reward for creating new bitcoin is cut in
half every 210,000 blocks, or approximately every four years.
On the Bitcoin network, transactions are recorded on a transparent
and open database, or ledger. Instead of keeping a centralized copy
of the database under one person’s control, thousands of people
and computers all update their own copy. These computers are called
verifiers, nodes, or, sometimes, verifying nodes, and they are responsible
for tracking all previous transactions on the ledger and verifying new 
transactions.
What are Digital Assets?
A guide to digital assets and the investment landscape for institutions
4
Bitcoin uses a consensus mechanism, a program for blockchain systems that allows distributed, 
anonymous validators to agree about the network’s state, to confirm the accuracy of its database. 
In a decentralized network, such as Bitcoin, there cannot be a typical voting system of one vote 
per person (because one could not identify the person or prevent people from voting multiple 
times), nor can there be one vote per computer or IP address (because someone could use a lot 
of machines to overtake the voting process). Instead, Bitcoin uses one vote per unit of computing 
power and electricity expended, referred to as “proof-of-work.”
To successfully mine a block of transactions, a randomly generated number must be guessed. 
The computer guesses repeatedly until the correct number is submitted, which is essentially trial-
and-error guessing. More computer energy used means more attempts can be made by miners 
to guess the correct number. The first computer to accurately guess this number wins write access 
to the ledger—temporarily gaining authority to include pending transactions for that block on 
everyone’s ledger. For this service, they receive a reward in the form of new bitcoin, also known as 
a block reward.
This mechanism allows the decentralized network to come to an agreement and solves the 
problem of double spending, in which malicious users try to spend the same bitcoin token twice. 
Since the network’s transaction history is publicly available, dishonest actors will have their 
transactions rejected by the rest of the network’s honest users. The mining process requires a 
lot of guesswork and computing power so bad actors are disincentivized from attempting any 
dishonest activity because that energy would be wasted and their transactions would be rejected. 
As the network grows, more energy is required to mine new blocks. As more miners compete to 
guess the randomly generated number, the network becomes more expensive to participate in 
dishonestly, further securing the network. Additionally, as the amount of mining power fluctuates, 
the network algorithmically self-corrects through a concept called the difficulty adjustment, which 
adjusts the work required to guess the right number. This mechanism helps to keep a schedule of 
when blocks are added and ensures that there is a state of competition from miners trying to guess 
the number. This also keeps the supply of newly minted bitcoin on schedule, thereby holding 
bitcoin’s inflation rate in check.
https://crypto.com/research/crypto-market-sizing-report-h1-2023
1
A guide to digital assets and the investment landscape for institutions
5
First of Its Kind
The technology that powers the Bitcoin network 
was the first of its kind. Previous attempts at 
decentralized digital networks failed to fix the 
double-spend problem described above. With 
Bitcoin, a secure, peer-to-peer electronic cash 
system was born, and, over a decade after its 
inception, more than 250 million people own 
bitcoin as of Q1 2023.1 Bitcoin has proven to be 
durable and scalable with the help of its layer 2 Lightning Network protocol (more on this later), 
and blockchain technology has touched nearly every commercial sector, including finance, 
business, real estate, art, gaming, and more.
Enter Ethereum
In the years following Bitcoin’s invention and 
launch, digital assets largely represented a 
single value proposition. Most non-bitcoin 
tokens launched in the years following offered 
what many industry analysts have characterized 
as an inferior and undifferentiated version of 
bitcoin’s value proposition. 
That perception in the marketplace changed 
in 2015 with the release of the Ethereum 
protocol. For the first time, a truly differentiated 
digital asset emerged, ether (ETH), exhibiting 
alternative value propositions and a wide array 
of potential use cases. This launch spawned a 
new era in digital assets, featuring increased 
innovation and competition.
Ethereum was created to provide an 
infrastructure for smart contracts, the key layer 
behind decentralized applications (dApps). 
People can build dApps on the Ethereum 
blockchain using a variety of accessible 
programming languages, just as smartphone 
apps are built on Apple’s iOS and Google’s 
Android operating systems. Unlike traditional 
protocols, the applications built on Ethereum 
are meant to be decentralized and run based 
on the logic and authority programmed into 
the smart contracts. Smart contract platforms, 
such as Ethereum, facilitate the existence of 
decentralized finance (DeFi) applications, 
non-fungible tokens (NFTs), and decentralized 
autonomous organizations (DAOs).
Interested in advancing your 
knowledge about Bitcoin and the 
importance of understanding it as  
the “first of its kind”?
▶ Check out our most popular research 	
    paper, “Bitcoin First Revisited.”
Beyond Bitcoin
A guide to digital assets and the investment landscape for institutions
6
Traditional Contracts or Agreement
Smart Contracts
Need to trust the other party to fulfill obligation.
No need to trust the other party because the contractual 
obligation automatically executes when certain 
conditions are met. However, this also introduces the 
risk of automatic execution of unintended action (e.g., 
misprogrammed code).
Risk of unpredictable outcome, such as human judges 
interpreting contracts differently.
Only one interpretation by the computer reading the code.
May not be public or verifiable.
Reside on the blockchain, making them auditable and 
transparent, but, as a result, may sacrifice privacy in 
some cases.
May have lower privacy (contracts tied to individual identity).
Transactions tied to a unique address, but not necessarily 
a person’s identity, due to pseudonymity.
Risk of fraud, unauthorized contract alterations, or 
misrepresentation of parties in contracts.
Risk of bugs in smart contract code and, therefore, 
potential exploits or hacks of the code.
Proof-of-Work vs. Proof-of-Stake 
Following the long-awaited network update, The Merge, Ethereum’s consensus mechanism 
transitioned from proof-of-work to proof-of-stake. This update was unrelated to transaction speed, 
capacity, or throughput, but rather was simply a matter of how the network chose to order and 
validate incoming transactions.
Unlike proof-of-work, proof-of-stake validates new transactions into blocks via a wealth-staking 
mechanism. In this system, instead of expending electricity and computing power that can be lost 
if a user does not follow the rules or acts maliciously, users lock up their tokens or wealth, which is 
then subject to being lost (“slashed”) if they do not follow the rules. Since Ethereum’s successful 
transition to proof-of-stake, its users can now stake their ether tokens to help secure the network 
while earning a yield for their efforts. Under proof-of-stake, miners have been replaced with these 
staking validators and competition for each block is replaced with randomness via an algorithm.
Smart contracts are like legal contracts, or even just casual agreements, in that if a certain condition 
is met, then there is a predetermined output or transaction enforced by code. However, there are 
some interesting differences between digital smart contracts and traditional financial agreements:
A guide to digital assets and the investment landscape for institutions
7
Decentralized applications that can enable things like: Lending, 
Decentralized Exchange, Derivatives, Payments, Asset Management
Fungible Tokens (ERC-20), Non-Fungible Tokens (ERC-721)
Ethereum Blockchain
Protocol Layer
Asset Layer
Settlement Layer
The core value proposition for ether grows as the number of tokens, smart contracts, and developers choosing 
to interact with the Ethereum network increases.
While there has been an explosion in decentralized applications (dApps) with all kinds of use 
cases, there are a few main categories that the most popular dApps fall under, which are detailed 
below. However, much like the Internet, it should be noted that there will likely be entirely new 
dApp categories within the next few years. It is also important to note that Ethereum was the first 
of its kind of cryptocurrency network, but not the last. Many blockchain networks have emerged 
with similar value propositions (and trade-offs) that enable decentralized applications.
Decentralized finance (DeFi) applications replicate many of the traditional finance functions, such 
as payments, lending, borrowing, saving, trading, and insurance. However, given smart contracts’ 
programmability and how different things can be built upon each other, new financial services 
have emerged that can only be performed through dApps. Therefore, DeFi has come to represent 
a kind of catch-all for anything that is finance-related, but done on a blockchain through dApps.
The Next Frontier
Ethereum laid the foundation for a robust decentralized ecosystem that includes ether, its native 
token, and thousands of non-native tokens and dApps. The visual below helps to illustrate the 
various functions and parts of the Ethereum network and how they build on top of each other.
DeFi
Decentralized Applications
A guide to digital assets and the investment landscape for institutions
8
Traditional Finance (TradFi)
Decentralized Finance (DeFi)
May be closed to customers due to geography, lack of 
identity verification, or credit metrics
Open to anyone with an internet connection
Trust in central authority or intermediary, such as a bank
Decentralized, no single intermediary to trust (but one must 
trust the protocol or code)
High transaction friction—can have high costs or take days
to complete
Usually lower costs, with transactions happening in minutes 
to a few hours
Low transparency (i.e., do not know exactly how loans 
are approved)
High transparency; most code is open-source, auditable, 
and verifiable
Funds held by intermediaries
Ability to control funds directly
Ability to censor (e.g., freeze accounts, block transactions)
Censorship-resistant
All activity linked to real identity
Pseudonymous
Limited hours, in which institutions are open
Always open and running
Stablecoins are digital assets pegged to the price of fiat currencies, equities, or other digital assets. 
The need for stablecoins emerged in the early days of digital assets when traditional banking 
and payment providers refused to work with exchanges. Users needed a way to convert their fiat 
currency into bitcoin and other digital assets, and stablecoins offered a solution. Most stablecoins 
claim to be backed 1:1 by fiat currencies, such as the U.S. dollar or the euro. This allows for the 
stablecoin price to remain at $1 or €1, enabling users to get in and out of the market without delays 
or price volatility.
Additionally, some countries have already launched Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC) pilot 
programs. China released the digital yuan in 2020, followed by progressions by Nigeria and
several Eastern Caribbean countries, while the U.S., U.K., India, Russia, and others have 
announced research efforts.
Stablecoins
Comparing traditional finance with DeFi can help to illustrate some DeFi value propositions:
https://www.nytimes.com/2021/03/11/arts/design/nft-auction-christies-beeple.html
2
A guide to digital assets and the investment landscape for institutions
9
Non-fungible tokens (NFTs) have become wildly popular in recent 
years, and some have made headlines for their outrageous price tags. 
For example, a single work of digital art by Beeple sold for $69.3 million 
in ETH in 2021.2
To begin to understand NFTs and why some consider them valuable, 
it is helpful to first define fungibility. If something is fungible, it can 
replace or be replaced by another identical item. For example, the U.S. 
dollar is fungible because each dollar has the same value. The same is true for gold, silver, bonds, 
barrels of oil, rewards points, bitcoin, and ether.
For something to be non-fungible, it must be one of a kind and irreplaceable. By this definition, 
many of the items in one’s home or life are non-fungible, like a piece of original art on one’s wall, a 
personal collection of seashells, or one’s identity. 
In the simplest terms, NFTs are unique identifiers that are minted on networks, such as Ethereum, 
and assigned to non-fungible assets that may be digital or physical. One popular application of NFT 
technology is digital art. Instead of selling their work at a brick-and-mortar gallery, issuing a certificate 
of authenticity, and adding their unique written signature, an artist can issue an NFT of the artwork 
on a public blockchain, creating a unique digital signature to prove its legitimacy. When the artist 
sells their work, they initiate an on-chain transfer of the NFT to the new owner, providing verifiable 
proof of authenticity and ownership.
Just as public blockchains allow for peer-to-peer transfers of digital assets, such as bitcoin, they do 
the same for NFTs. When buying and selling an NFT, there is no need for an intermediary, which 
allows creators to transact directly with fans and collectors.
NFTs
While many digital assets, such as bitcoin and ether, serve as digital mediums of exchange, their 
initial iterations were primarily designed for decentralization, not speed. As digital assets became 
more popular and received more network requests, users complained of high transaction fees and 
long wait times. This posed the problem of scalability. 
Scaling Solutions
A guide to digital assets and the investment landscape for institutions
10
Fortunately, some networks are developing or have already launched layer 2 (L2) scaling
solutions, or software enhancements built on top of the original blockchain base layer, to make 
transactions faster and cheaper. For example, Bitcoin’s blockchain base layer can only process 
up to seven transactions per second (TPS). This was the only option until its layer 2 solution was 
released, dubbed the “Lightning Network,” which can theoretically process up to 1 million TPS for 
as little as a few cents. Numerous bitcoin wallets, mobile apps, and users have quickly embraced 
Bitcoin’s Lightning Network, making Bitcoin not only a viable digital payments method, but also a 
superior one from a cost-efficiency standpoint. 
Ethereum, the second-largest digital asset by market cap, also stands to benefit from layer 2 scaling 
solutions. Top Ethereum layer 2s by number of users, such as Polygon, Arbitrum, and Optimism, all 
aim to drastically help improve Ethereum transaction speeds and decrease fees while preserving 
Ethereum’s decentralization.  
Of course, these transaction efficiencies are not without trade-offs. For example, with Bitcoin’s 
Lightning Network, instead of sending transactions to every node on the network (on-chain), 
transactions are only sent between the parties involved in the transactions (off-chain). This 
circumvents Bitcoin’s seven TPS limit by allowing transactions to happen between individuals, 
reducing settlement time from 10 minutes to a few seconds because the transaction no longer 
requires layer 1 network consensus.
Digital Assets in a Portfolio
The investment case for bitcoin typically contains one or some combination of the following three 
unique elements: bitcoin as digital gold, a portfolio diversifier, or a venture-like investment. These 
characteristics show the important role that bitcoin, deemed by many as an alternative asset, 
could potentially play in traditional portfolios over time. The investment case for bitcoin should 
be viewed from the context of a broader portfolio, rather than simply as a standalone asset. 
The unique characteristics inherent in bitcoin could potentially help to drive more robust overall 
portfolio outcomes.
Bitcoin often receives the title “digital gold” from many of its proponents because of its hard supply 
cap of 21 million coins, giving the asset absolute scarcity. Physical gold has long been considered 
Bitcoin within a Portfolio
A guide to digital assets and the investment landscape for institutions
11
to be a safe way to store value over time and a hedge against inflation. The reality for gold is that 
it functions less as a direct consumer inflation hedge and more as a hedge against overall financial 
repression. As expectations of real interest rates are driven lower, fixed income becomes less 
attractive relative to a scarce asset, like gold or, potentially, bitcoin. As bitcoin finds its way into more 
hands, external macroeconomic variables will probably become more important. Given enough 
time, bitcoin may also be seen as an alternative store of value hedge against financial repression, 
especially considering that over almost any long period of time, bitcoin has outpaced the expansion 
of the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet and investment returns from broad market indices.
Regarding its role in a portfolio, one of the most recognized characteristics of bitcoin is the 
extremely skewed and asymmetric return profile that it has historically offered to investors. Many 
say bitcoin’s investment opportunity is similar in nature to that of a venture capital investment. It is 
highly volatile, but it has a large total addressable market and presents plenty of potential upside 
for investors because of the companies, technology, and infrastructure that continue to develop 
on or around Bitcoin. All that being said, investing in Bitcoin and digital assets remains highly 
speculative, is subject to market manipulation and liquidity constraints, and investors should be 
well aware that they may lose their entire investment.
Alternative investments with heavily skewed return profiles can create excellent investment 
opportunities because one does not need to hold a large position to receive meaningful portfolio 
benefits. The monthly returns of bitcoin and shares in an S&P 500 investment fund show Bitcoin 
has been noticeably more volatile and positively skewed in its returns on a monthly basis. We 
believe that its current size is no impediment to the potential continuation of large, positively 
skewed returns either. Of course, past performance is no guarantee of future results. As of the end 
of Q3 2023, Bitcoin has a market capitalization of just over $500 billion.3 Meanwhile, other store of 
value assets, such as gold and global fixed income, boast market sizes of roughly $12 trillion4 and 
$130 trillion,5 respectively.
Another potential reason for including bitcoin in investment portfolios is its ability to provide 
noncorrelated returns when placed alongside traditional assets. In recent years, bitcoin has been 
noted as becoming more correlated to traditional risk assets, such as equities, but it is not yet clear 
whether this trend will continue or if it will revert to its historically uncorrelated nature. Its supply 
https://www.sifma.org/resources/research/fact-book/#:~:text=Section%201
5
https://www.gold.org/goldhub/research/market-primer/gold-market-primer-market-size-and-structure
4
https://studio.glassnode.com/metrics?a=BTC&category=Market&m=market.MarketcapUsd
3
A guide to digital assets and the investment landscape for institutions
12
scarcity and network effects probably drive medium- and long-term returns that swerve from 
those of the broad equity and credit markets. This has led to reduced correlations to other assets 
and has, over the duration of its existence, created a historically complimentary asset for many 
traditional portfolios. Portfolio allocators are constantly looking for assets with positive expected 
returns and low or no correlation to their portfolio. Bitcoin has historically fit the bill, exhibiting 
no meaningful correlation to any major asset class over the long term, and produced extremely 
advantageous returns for investors. While Bitcoin’s investment prospect may seem advantageous, 
past performance is no guarantee of future results.
The primary value proposition and investment thesis for the Ethereum protocol is its unique 
programmability and resulting usefulness for building applications on the network. This includes 
the enablement of dApps with various use cases and abilities. 
One of the primary cases for investing in the Ethereum protocol is based on yield-generating 
opportunities presented directly through ether staking or indirectly via any number of dApps. 
Specifically, one such opportunity is related to borrowing and lending capabilities. Users who hold 
assets, such as ether, can lock them into a smart contract as a saver or lender, while the protocol 
facilitates the borrowing of those assets for a specific period, automatically paying interest to 
the lender. What makes this different from a traditional borrowing/lending arrangement is that 
there is no bank or intermediary, no personal information needed, and automatic execution of all 
processes through code.
Another opportunity presented as a case for investment in the Ethereum ecosystem is integration 
with stablecoins. Because buying or selling digital assets with U.S. dollars requires an “on-ramp” 
(usually in the form of a regulated exchange and high fees), the ability to swap between a digital 
asset and a U.S. dollar–like token is appealing to many users, especially those engaging in DeFi 
transactions or frequent trading. As stablecoin demand and popularity continue to grow, the use 
of the Ethereum ecosystem in this space is expected to continue to grow alongside it.
Today, ETH’s use case is to function both as the native currency for transactions on the Ethereum 
blockchain and as collateral for proof-of-stake validators. Once Ethereum changed to proof-of-stake, 
ETH became a vital part of the network’s security and transformed into a yield-bearing asset. Under 
proof-of-stake, ETH offers the ability to function in a capacity similar to that of application-specific 
Ether as an Investment
A guide to digital assets and the investment landscape for institutions
13
miners on a proof-of-work blockchain, except that these ETH miners are nondepreciating and can 
be used or traded within the network. ETH’s role as a consensus-validating asset means that overall 
network usage and the importance of maintaining adequate security will be a potential driving force 
for future asset price appreciation.
Read our Ethereum Investment Thesis.
Additional Digital Asset Considerations
Decentralized assets like bitcoin can be transferred across the world in as little as seconds without 
the need for an intermediary. Bitcoin’s decentralization brings great opportunity, but also a great 
responsibility for those using and storing it. Bitcoin ownership is determined by private keys, like 
a bank account password, that the owner must manage and custody. Digital assets’ decentralized 
and connected nature sometimes subjects them to hacks, theft, and human error. Because of this, 
they require a unique set of requirements to ensure secure custody.
While not without its flaws, a familiar analogy for this public key cryptography is that 
the public key is like your email address, and the private key is like the password to 
your email account. You would never share your password with a friend, but you 
would freely share your email address. Just as your friends can send a message to 
your email address, they can send digital assets to a digital asset address that is 
computed from your public key and can be freely shared.
At the most basic level, digital assets can be stored using hot, cold, or multisignature wallets. Each 
wallet variation has potential trade-offs. 
Hot wallets are software-based and connected to the Internet. This method makes accessing and 
transacting with digital assets easy and convenient by keeping the private key more accessible for 
the user, but it can also leave the wallet and its user vulnerable to security compromise. Generally, 
for security reasons, many people prefer to minimize storing their digital assets in a hot wallet as 
much as possible.
Cold storage wallets are not connected to the Internet. A cold storage wallet can be a USB or digital 
asset–specific hardware storage product for storing and/or controlling private keys or simply a paper 
A guide to digital assets and the investment landscape for institutions
14
copy of private keys stored in a vault or other secure place. Many consider cold storage to be a 
preferred solution (some firms use cold storage exclusively). Cold storage adds a manual step to 
accessing digital assets, but provides an additional level of security.
Multisignature, or multisig, wallets require two or more participants to facilitate a transaction, 
adding an extra level of diligence and security. If a bad actor were to gain access to a private key, 
they would not be able to send bitcoin from the wallet without cooperation from another party.
With these considerations in mind, investors can gain exposure to digital assets in two main 
ways: 1) through a direct investment in the underlying asset, or 2) through a managed investment 
product. Both options have unique trade-offs depending on an investor’s needs.
To make a direct investment in bitcoin, ether, or another digital asset, many people make purchases 
through a regulated exchange or other execution provider and then choose a custody solution. 
As described above, digital asset custody requires special considerations. One can choose to self-
custody their assets, independently maintaining the security of their private keys by storing them in a 
personal hot or cold wallet or via a managed custody solution provided by a third party. Self-custody 
puts the onus on the individual to institute their own controls and independently store their private 
keys. While a managed custody solution may be a simpler option for some, not all providers are the 
same. It is important to evaluate the cyber and physical controls in place as well as the company’s 
regulatory status, insurance policy, and reputation.
A potential advantage of direct exposure is that it may be one of the more cost-efficient ways to 
access the asset class, given the relatively low aggregate fees (trade execution and custody costs) 
compared with managed investment products. Another key advantage is capital efficiency. As 
bitcoin and other digital assets become more widely accepted as investable assets, borrowers may 
increasingly leverage them as collateral to access liquidity while maintaining their positions. Lenders 
may see value in bitcoin’s use as collateral because it offers certain appealing characteristics, such 
as liquidity, borderlessness, and facilitation of fast, final settlement and real-time price discovery.
A potential challenge of a direct investment is the required technical due diligence. Given the 
relatively more technical nature of digital asset custody, investors may feel ill-equipped to 
appropriately perform due diligence on service providers. Thus, certain institutions may prefer 
to select vehicles that allow them to outsource evaluation of service providers due to technical 
Direct Investment
A guide to digital assets and the investment landscape for institutions
15
knowledge and experience gaps. Additionally, there is a lack of institutional solutions for direct 
digital asset exposure that are integrated with traditional equities providers, creating potential tax 
and reporting challenges.
Today, there are various managed investment products on the market, including passive and active 
digital asset funds. These options may provide a more familiar and convenient experience for 
institutions seeking to gain exposure to digital assets through a traditional investment vehicle.
Private funds provide accredited and qualified institutional investors with another channel to obtain 
exposure to bitcoin. While funds exist to offer active strategies, many elect passive funds because 
they remove the complexities of bitcoin trading and custody and present the asset to investors in 
a familiar structure. The cost of convenience is the management fee that funds charge investors in 
addition to the trading and custody fees, which they pass along. These fees not only account for the 
fund managers and operations, but the costs the fund incurs via their elected custodian.
Investors may also find value in gaining exposure to bitcoin through an actively managed vehicle. 
As a transparent, liquid, and volatile asset that trades 24/7, bitcoin offers a compelling opportunity 
for active managers to generate alpha on top of regular price behavior. While bitcoin’s inability 
to fit neatly within the framework associated with traditional active management has dissuaded 
institutional investors from adopting an actively managed strategy, bitcoin offers a unique set of tools 
that investors can leverage to assess its fundamentals. Specifically, market participants can source 
data to analyze bitcoin in more depth than is possible with any other traditional asset. In the same 
way that a government statistical agency publishes data about a country’s population and economy, 
or a public company publishes quarterly financial statements disclosing growth rates and earnings, 
the Bitcoin network provides a real-time global ledger that publishes data about the network’s 
activity and inner economics.
Managed Investment Products
Interested in receiving the latest proprietary research 
on Bitcoin and digital assets from Fidelity Digital Assets℠?
▶  Sign up here.
A guide to digital assets and the investment landscape for institutions
16
Get Started with Fidelity Digital Assets
Fidelity Digital Assets offers a suite of digital asset services and investment solutions built to serve 
institutional investors’ unique and varying needs.
•	
Access multivenue liquidity from a single platform without moving assets from cold storage.
•	
Buy or transfer bitcoin or ether and securely store it on our industry-leading custody platform.
•	
Access credit from approved third-party lenders using digital assets secured with Fidelity Digital Assets℠ 
as collateral.
Custody and Trading Platform
Global Coverage
Available across the United States* and many countries in Europe, Asia, and Latin America.
*State limitations may exist depending on client location.
Interested in learning how Fidelity Digital Assets℠ custody and execution services or investment products 
could be right for you?
Fill out this form and a member of the Fidelity Digital Assets℠ team will reach out to you.
Discover Your Options
The information herein was prepared by Fidelity Digital Asset Services, LLC and Fidelity Digital Assets, Ltd. It is for informational purposes only and is not intended to constitute a 
recommendation, investment advice of any kind, or an offer or the solicitation of an offer to buy or sell securities or other assets. Please perform your own research and consult a 
qualified advisor to see if digital assets are an appropriate investment option.
This information is not intended for distribution to, or use by, any person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use would be contrary to local law or 
regulation. Persons accessing this information are required to inform themselves about and observe such restrictions. 
Custody and trading of digital assets are provided by Fidelity Digital Asset Services, LLC, a limited liability trust company chartered by the New York Department of Financial Services 
(NMLS ID 1773897) or Fidelity Digital Assets, Ltd. Fidelity Digital Assets, Ltd. is registered with the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority for certain cryptoasset activities under the Money 
Laundering, Terrorist Financing and Transfer of Funds (Information on the Payer) Regulations 2017. The Financial Ombudsman Service and the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme do not apply to the cryptoasset activities carried on by Fidelity Digital Assets, Ltd. 
To the extent this communication constitutes a financial promotion in the U.K., it is issued only to, or directed only at, persons who are: (i) investment professionals within the meaning 
of Article 19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “FPO”); (ii) high net worth companies and certain other entities falling within Article 
49 of the FPO; and (iii) any other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated.
Digital assets are speculative and highly volatile, can become illiquid at any time, may be subject to market manipulation, and are for investors with a high-risk tolerance. Investors in 
digital assets could lose the entire value of their investment.
Digital assets are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or protected by the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (“SIPC”).
Fidelity Digital Asset Services, LLC and Fidelity Digital Assets, Ltd. do not provide tax, legal, investment, or accounting advice. This material is not intended to provide, and should not 
be relied on, for tax, legal, or accounting advice. Tax laws and regulations are complex and subject to change. You should consult your own tax, legal, and accounting advisors before 
engaging in any transaction.
Some of this information is forward-looking and is subject to change. Past performance is no guarantee of future results. Investment results cannot be predicted or projected.
Fidelity Digital Assets and the Fidelity Digital Assets logo are service marks of FMR LLC.
This material may be distributed by the following entities, none of whom offer digital assets nor provide clearing or custody services for such assets: Fidelity Distributors Company LLC; 
National Financial Services LLC; Fidelity Brokerage Services LLC; Fidelity Institutional Wealth Adviser LLC. 
© 2023 FMR LLC. All rights reserved. 
1110830.1.0
