Skip to main content
Skip to navigation
legislation.gov.uk
Cymraeg
Home
Explore our collections
Research tools
Help and guidance
What's new
About us
Search Legislation
Search Legislation
Welcome
United Kingdom
Browse UK Legislation
UK Parliament website
Scotland
Browse Scotland Legislation
Scottish Parliament website
Wales
Browse Wales Legislation
Welsh Parliament
Northern Ireland
Browse Northern Ireland Legislation
Northern Ireland Assembly
Legislation originating from the EU
Browse legislation originating from the EU
EUR-Lex website
Welcome
United Kingdom
Scotland
Wales
Northern Ireland
Legislation originating from the EU
What legislation do we hold and how can you use it?
New Legislation
Stay up to date with newly enacted legislation for the UK, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland as it is published
			to this site using our free subscription feeds, or by browsing new legislation by publication date.
			All Bills currently before the UK Parliament are listed on theUK Parliamentwebsite in theParliamentary Business, Bills & Legislationsection.
			They are published on this site once they receive Royal Assent.
Browse new legislation
Legislation published recently
Scottish Statutory Instruments (4)
UK Statutory Instruments (6)
Wales Statutory Instrument (1)
Finding your way around legislation.gov.uk
Legislation.gov.uk carries most (but not all) types of legislation and their accompanying explanatory documents. You can read about whatlegislation we publish,how we apply amendments,what legislation we update,where you can obtain copies of legislation we don’t holdandhow legislation works. To find an item of legislation you canbrowse by legislation type and categoryor useour advanced searchto explore by title or keyword in text.
Understanding Legislation
How legislation works
How parliaments have changed over time and created different legislation types
How legislation is numbered and cited
How legislation can extend and apply to different parts of the UK
How legislation comes into force
Our editorial practice and timescales for incorporating changes
Legislation originating from the EU
More help
FAQs
Glossary of Terms
Guide to Revised Legislation
Statutory Instrument Practice
New site design
Help
About us
Site map
Accessibility
Contact us
Privacy notice
Cookies
All content is available under theOpen Government Licence v3.0except whereotherwise stated. This site additionally contains content derived from EUR-Lex, reused under the terms of theCommission Decision 2011/833/EUon the reuse of documents from the EU institutions. For more information see theEUR-Lex public statement on re-use.