Digital Assets Regulation: 
Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
I N S I G H T  R E P O R T
O C T O B E R  2 0 2 4
Images: Getty Images
Disclaimer 
This document is published by the  
World Economic Forum as a contribution 
to a project, insight area or interaction. 
The findings, interpretations and 
conclusions expressed herein are a result 
of a collaborative process facilitated and 
endorsed by the World Economic Forum 
but whose results do not necessarily 
represent the views of the World Economic 
Forum, nor the entirety of its Members, 
Partners or other stakeholders.
© 2024 World Economic Forum. All rights 
reserved. No part of this publication may 
be reproduced or transmitted in any form 
or by any means, including photocopying 
and recording, or by any information 
storage and retrieval system.
Contents
Preface
3
Executive summary
4
Introduction
5
1	 Regulatory approaches, outcomes and unintended consequences
7
1.1	 European Union
9
1.2	 Gibraltar
11
1.3	 Hong Kong SAR, China 
12
1.4	 Japan
14
1.5	 Singapore
16
1.6	 Switzerland
18
1.7	 United Arab Emirates
20
1.8	 United Kingdom
22
1.9	 United States of America
23
2	 Recommendations
26
2.1	 Anti-money laundering (AML) and know your customer 
27 
(KYC) recommendations
2.2	 Regulatory and technical sandbox recommendations 
28
2.3	 Decentralized finance (DeFi) recommendations 
29
2.4	 Privacy and security policy recommendations 
30
Conclusion
31
Contributors
32
Endnotes
35
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
2
As the adoption of digital assets continues, 2024 
marks a pivotal moment for the global landscape of 
digital asset regulation. As of early September 2024, 
the total market capitalization of cryptocurrencies, 
one type of digital asset, was valued at $2.01 trillion 
and stablecoins comprised 8.5% of this market, 
amounting to $171 billion.1 When it comes to the 
status of regulation globally, according to a recent 
Bank for International Settlements (BIS) survey, two-
thirds of the 86 jurisdictions surveyed were or will 
soon be regulating digital assets.2 The main goals of 
implementing regulation are to protect investors and 
consumers and maintain financial stability.
As regulatory developments continue, countries 
such as Australia, the United Kingdom, Brazil 
and South Korea have this year committed to 
unveiling new regulatory frameworks. In addition, 
the full rollout of the European Union’s Markets in 
Crypto-Assets (MiCA) regulation is poised to set a 
precedent for comprehensive digital asset oversight.
Although there has been recent progress in digital 
asset regulation, countries are taking divergent 
approaches and have established different timelines 
for creation and implementation. Each jurisdiction is 
developing regulations based on unique goals and 
objectives, which risks a lack of coordination globally.
With these varying approaches, it is imperative  
that stakeholders collaborate to forge a secure and 
equitable regulatory environment. This necessitates 
the sharing of learnings from global regulatory 
experiments, identifying both successful policies 
and shortcomings. The analysis contained in this 
report aims to highlight these critical regulatory 
insights, enabling policy-makers and regulators 
to craft effective and harmonized frameworks 
that promote innovation while safeguarding 
stakeholders. As the global economy navigates the 
complexities of digital assets, the report endeavours 
to contribute a clear and impartial perspective on 
the evolving regulatory landscape.
Digital Assets Regulation: 
Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
October 2024
Preface
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
3
Executive summary
There is a need for clear guidelines in the fast-
evolving digital assets industry. This report provides 
a close analysis of the regulatory frameworks in 
nine jurisdictions and their unique approaches 
to policy creation and implementation. The work 
builds on previous research undertaken by the 
World Economic Forum on digital asset regulation, 
which established a foundation to further explore 
the jurisdiction-specific approaches detailed in  
this new report.
By examining nine jurisdictions, the report draws 
key lessons from each approach and reveals the 
unintended consequences that may result from 
different regulatory frameworks. The nine jurisdictions 
are leading economies for digital asset activity and 
regulation implementation – the European Union; 
Gibraltar; Hong Kong SAR, China (Hong Kong); 
Japan; Singapore; Switzerland; the United Arab 
Emirates; the United Kingdom; and the United States. 
The analysis enables leaders to take a jurisdictional 
view of both the potential advantages and the 
disadvantages of implementing certain policies. 
This investigation of each jurisdiction not only 
enhances the understanding of the direct effects 
of regulatory methodologies but also provides 
context for predicting upcoming trends and 
preparing for potential challenges in the evolving 
digital assets landscape. Through such analysis, 
policy-makers and regulators can anticipate the 
impacts of their decisions, better enabling them 
to build and implement regulations that are in line 
with their intended goals.
Across these nine jurisdictions, the report 
examines four key industry topics: anti-money 
laundering (AML) and know your customer (KYC); 
regulatory and technical sandboxes; decentralized 
finance (DeFi); and privacy and security. These 
subjects surfaced as the most pressing during the 
assessment, standing out as the industry’s most 
prominent issues at this time. 
Drawing on this jurisdictional and topic-specific 
analysis, the report offers a set of recommendations 
for both public- and private-sector stakeholders, 
categorized by issue as summarized below. 
	–
AML and KYC: Building on existing AML/
KYC foundations, focusing on the adoption 
of technology-enhanced solutions, global 
cooperation, and training and compliance 
programmes, to help create a more secure 
digital assets landscape in the future.
	–
Regulatory and technical sandboxes: 
Implementing clear sandbox objectives 
and support mechanisms and enabling the 
collaborative participation of diverse and broad 
networks in sandbox environments.
	–
DeFi: Prioritizing the need for risk mitigation 
and transparency as well as tailored licensing 
models and clear definitions to refine these 
regulations in a controlled setting without 
compromising the unique nature of DeFi  
and its technological advancements.
	–
Privacy and security: Underscoring the need 
for strong data protection policies that prioritize 
the consumer and include regular security 
audits and compliance checks to safeguard 
personal and financial information.
This report analyses digital asset regulation 
in several jurisdictions to identify unique 
approaches and provide insights to policy-
makers and private-sector participants.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
4
Introduction
Digital assets continue to have a strong presence in 
the global economy, as evidenced by a significant 
market capitalization.3 However, the legal status 
of cryptocurrencies varies significantly by country. 
According to an analysis by the Atlantic Council, 
cryptocurrencies are legal in 33 countries, partially 
banned in 17 and generally prohibited in 10.4 
In an assessment of the status of digital asset 
regulation globally, the Bank for International 
Settlements (BIS) noted that more than 60% of 
responding jurisdictions possess or are creating a 
regulatory framework for digital assets (Figure 1).5 
Most are bringing forward bespoke regulation 
(48%) because their existing regulatory frameworks 
do not cover digital assets. Jurisdictions that 
have established or are developing a tailored 
regulatory framework for stablecoins include the 
United Kingdom, Hong Kong and Singapore,while 
the European Union is developing a framework 
for digital assets more generally. In just 9% of 
jurisdictions, digital assets are subject to existing 
financial regulation. To date, around 33% of 
jurisdictions lack a regulatory framework and 
are not currently working on one.
The global regulatory landscape for digital 
assets is evolving, with differences in regulatory 
approaches between jurisdictions.
Regulatory framework for stablecoins and other cryptoassets
As a percentage of respondents, 2023
Presence in the jurisdictions
Regulatory objectives
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
Yes
Currently under 
development
No
Uncertain
No answer
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
Investor/consumer 
protection
Protecting ﬁnancial stability
Countering illicit ﬁnance
Fair, efﬁcient and transparent 
markets, innovation and/or 
competition
Safety and soundness 
of regulated institutions/
infrastructures
Bespoke regulation
General ﬁnancial regulation
Bespoke regulation
General ﬁnancial regulation
No
Uncertain
No answer
Central bank responses to digital asset regulation survey
F I G U R E  1
Source: Bank for International Settlements. (2024). Annual economic report No. 147: Embracing diversity, advancing together – results of the 2023 BIS survey  
on central bank currencies and crypto. www.bis.org/publ/bppdf/bispap147.pdf
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
5
Globally, digital asset policies and regulations 
differ to align with the needs of each jurisdiction, 
based on variations in goals and risk appetites. 
In addition, not all digital assets are created equal, 
and their classification profoundly influences 
their use, valuation and regulatory treatment. 
This report promotes a nuanced approach to 
regulation rather than a “one-size-fits-all” method, 
a sentiment echoed in the diverse regulatory 
regimes explored in the report.
As the world grapples with the opportunities 
and challenges presented in the digital assets 
sector, the World Economic Forum’s Centre for 
Financial and Monetary Systems seeks to provide 
an impartial understanding of the regulatory 
landscape through the Digital Assets Regulatory 
(DAR) initiative. The Forum has conducted 
previous related work on this topic including the 
Digital Currency Governance Consortium white 
paper series and most recently the Pathways 
to Crypto-Asset Regulation paper. This earlier 
work laid the foundation for further exploration 
of jurisdiction-specific considerations for shaping 
new policies and regulations. 
The DAR initiative engaged more than 80 senior 
leaders from the public and private sectors and 
academia to examine the current state of digital 
asset regulation around the globe, and to analyse 
outcomes from regulatory implementations to 
date in several advanced jurisdictions. This report 
synthesizes the findings from these explorations.
Methodology
Insights have been gathered from our steering 
committee and expert working group through:
	–
Desk research
	–
Workshops
	–
Interviews
Audience
The report audience includes global policy-makers 
and regulators, along with executives of private-
sector companies, who all have responsibilities 
connected to digital assets.
Taxonomy
Given the diverse actors and roles that comprise 
the digital assets ecosystem, a general taxonomy 
is essential for consistent regulation and can assist 
with clarity and organization, as well as consistent 
benchmarking across various jurisdictions. The 
lack of a common taxonomy has been mentioned 
in the digital asset space and was referenced in 
the Pathways to Crypto-Asset Regulation report 
as an important risk. However, there are still many 
perspectives and a lack of consensus persists on 
definitions among ecosystem participants. Bearing 
in mind these complexities, the term “digital asset” 
will be used throughout this report as an all-
encompassing category. Within each jurisdictional 
context, the terminology is used in line with each 
respective jurisdiction’s usage. 
 This report 
promotes a 
nuanced approach 
to regulation rather 
than a ‘one-size-
fits-all’ method, a 
sentiment echoed 
in the diverse 
regulatory regimes 
explored in the 
report.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
6
Regulatory approaches, 
outcomes and unintended 
consequences
1
This section examines nine jurisdictions’ 
digital asset regulatory approaches, highlighting 
important industry issues, initial policy outcomes 
and unintended consequences.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
7
To examine lessons learned in the digital assets 
regulatory landscape, a comprehensive view of 
current approaches is needed. The jurisdictions 
chosen for examination have regulations at an 
advanced stage of development, allowing for the 
impacts of their implementation to be observed. 
These are: the European Union, Gibraltar, Hong 
Kong, Japan, Singapore, Switzerland, the United 
Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom and the United 
States of America (Figure 2). 
For each jurisdiction, there are four subsections: 
“general approach”, “approach by topic”, “outcomes” 
and “unintended consequences”, each designed to 
explore different elements of the regulatory landscape.
“General approach” describes the overarching 
regulatory methodology of a given region. Within 
“approach by topic”, the report analyses four of 
the industry’s most pressing issues: anti-money 
laundering (AML) and know your customer (KYC); 
regulatory and technical sandboxes; decentralized 
finance (DeFi); and privacy and security. While 
evaluating the selected jurisdictions, these topics 
emerged as the most prominent, with each region 
adopting a unique regulatory approach to address 
them. The additional rationale for their inclusion is 
discussed below: 
	–
AML and KYC: Effective AML and KYC 
measures are mission-critical to the integrity 
of the digital assets ecosystem as they help 
promote a transparent and safe environment. 
	–
Regulatory and technical sandboxes: 
Sandboxes play a pivotal role by allowing 
companies to test products under oversight, 
promoting responsible innovation while 
ensuring compliance with existing and 
upcoming standards.
	–
DeFi: DeFi’s goal of altering the existing 
paradigm of centralization has significant 
implications for how users interact with 
technology applications and introduces  
novel regulatory challenges in the future.
	–
Privacy and security: Robust measures protect 
consumers’ assets and data from threats and 
build a secure digital assets landscape and 
increase consumer trust.
In the “outcomes” and “unintended consequences” 
segments, the report analyses the results of digital 
assets policies that have been evident to date, as 
well as any unexpected results stemming from the 
regulatory frameworks in place. 
Nine jurisdictions assessed
F I G U R E  2
United Kingdom
European Union
United Arab Emirates
Japan
Singapore
United States of America
Switzerland
Gibraltar
Hong Kong SAR, China
 The jurisdictions 
chosen for 
examination have 
regulations at an 
advanced stage 
of development, 
allowing for the 
impacts of their 
implementation 
to be observed.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
8
1.1	 European Union  
General approach 
The European Union is one of the largest markets 
with advanced digital asset regulation. In 2023, the 
EU finalized the comprehensive Markets in Crypto-
Assets (MiCA) regulation, an important piece of 
the EU’s digital finance strategy, providing legal 
clarity on privacy, security and transparency for 
digital assets, which does not include non-fungible 
tokens (NFTs) and decentralized digital assets.6 
MiCA requires all issuers to create a white paper 
for assets, subject to approval and licensing, with 
non-compliance leading to fines.7 The regulation, 
effective from 30 June 2024 for stablecoins and 
fully effective by the end of 2024, aims to harmonize 
regulations among member states, replacing 
existing domestic laws, while the implementation is 
delegated to respective jurisdictional authorities for 
enforcement.8 MiCA focuses on investor protection 
and market integrity, primarily addressing crypto-
asset service providers (CASPs) and certain types 
of tokens. It also includes rules for stablecoins, 
mandating governance and reserve management, 
and compliance with relevant existing legislation.9
It is important to distinguish between crypto-assets 
that fall under MiCA and financial instruments in 
digital form that fall under the existing securities 
regulations (e.g. Markets in Financial Instruments 
Directive [MiFID]). The EU’s Digital Operational 
Resilience Act (DORA) and the DLT Pilot Regime 
provide the legal framework for trading and 
settlement of other digital assets under MiFID II 
(effective since 2018), facilitating cross-border 
expansion and mitigating regulatory arbitrage.10 
With these advances, the EU will be the world’s 
largest market with legal and regulatory clarity  
for digital assets.
Approach by topic 
 
  Anti-money laundering (AML)  
        and know your customer (KYC) 
In 2021, the EU presented several proposals 
for strengthening AML protections, including 
establishing a new entity called the Anti-Money 
Laundering and Countering the Financing of 
Terrorism Authority (AMLA).11 Many of these 
proposals are currently in development and, subject 
to discussions, working towards agreements.12,13
As a member of the Financial Action Task Force 
(FATF), the EU aligns with Travel Rule regulations.14 
The revised Transfer of Funds Regulation (TFR) 
mandates capturing all transaction information, 
regardless of size, with a threshold of €1,000 
for self-hosted wallets. 
MiCA requires CASPs to comply with KYC and 
AML rules, performing enhanced due diligence  
for customers from high-risk countries.  
It is important to clarify here that these AML 
protections are not crypto-specific, and that  
the TFR applies exclusively to service providers,  
and therefore explicitly excludes obligations for 
providers of hardware and software or providers  
of self-custody wallets that do not have control 
over the crypto-assets. As such, AML and KYC 
remain key elements of the upcoming regulations. 
 
  Regulatory and technical sandboxes
MiCA is generally supportive of regulatory and 
technical sandboxes. In 2023, the EU launched 
the European Blockchain Regulatory Sandbox, 
which will run for three years, with cohorts of 20 
 The European 
Union is one of the 
largest markets 
with advanced 
digital asset 
regulation.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
9
blockchain use cases.15 When it comes to digital 
securities, the launch of the DLT Pilot Regime is 
dedicated to allowing companies to experiment  
with distributed ledger technology (DLT).16 
Portugal, an EU member country, also has a unique 
Technological Free Zone regulatory sandbox for 
encouraging the development and experimentation 
of new technology applications.17,18
 
  Decentralized finance (DeFi)
MiCA explicitly carves out DeFi from the upcoming 
regulation, as per recital 22: “Where crypto-asset 
services are provided in a fully decentralised 
manner without any intermediary, they should 
not fall within the scope of this Regulation.”19 
However, the regulation calls for several studies of 
components of the DeFi ecosystem, decentralized 
protocols and applications.
The European Securities and Markets Authority 
(ESMA) recently published a report, Decentralised 
Finance in the EU: Developments and Risks, to inform 
the future of MiCA.20 Additionally, the European 
Commission is expected to prepare a report by 
December 2024 that examines the DeFi market. 
 
  Privacy and security
MiCA will require identity verification of asset 
holders, and mandates that trading platforms 
must not allow users to trade assets with full 
anonymization. Additionally, the Travel Rule’s 
identity requirements, to which the EU subscribes, 
will include supervision of financial transactions.21 
The EU has also enacted the General Data 
Protection Regulation (GDPR), which is seen as  
one of the most comprehensive privacy and 
security laws in the world. Authorities are evaluating 
how GDPR and MiCA will work together.22 
Outcomes
The intention of the MiCA regulation is for 
regulation to be harmonized across Europe, as 
the law is binding and directly applicable in all EU 
member states. Proponents argue that it avoids 
regulatory fragmentation, safeguards consumer 
protections and facilitates cross-border expansion 
for CASPs, which will mitigate regulatory arbitrage.
The European Blockchain Regulatory Sandbox 
has led to mixed opinions. Some stakeholders have 
given positive feedback about the ability to run 
innovative experiments, establish best practices 
alongside regulators and collaborate with authorities 
effectively. However, the sandbox has also been 
criticized by industry participants for its narrow 
scope of permitted use cases, which has resulted 
in a relatively limited pool of applicants.
European authorities have been able to instil 
increasing confidence on the topic of KYC and 
AML with the takedown of cryptocurrency mixers 
such as ChipMixer and Bitzlato, which enabled 
money laundering.23,24
Other outcomes include the growth of inward 
investment into the EU by international digital 
asset firms, which are early signs of increased 
market development. 
Unintended consequences 
Some aspects of digital assets have been excluded 
from regulation, while others are being seen as overly 
prescriptive. MiCA has been criticized for excluding 
technology applications such as central bank digital 
currencies (CBDCs), utility tokens, DeFi and NFTs, 
leading to potential unintended consequences.
Other aspects of MiCA can be seen as being too 
strict, such as stablecoin reserve requirements. 
Also, the mandated transparency conflicts with 
digital asset anonymity, raising privacy concerns. 
Industry players are urging the EU to consider 
alternative compliance methods that better protect 
privacy. Lastly, the Data Act’s provisions for 
interrupting or terminating smart contracts have 
faced backlash from blockchain advocacy groups, 
who view these controls as overreaching. 
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
10
1.2	 Gibraltar  
General approach
Gibraltar has established itself as a prominent 
centre for blockchain and digital assets. In 
January 2018, the territory pioneered legislation 
for DLT, the first jurisdiction to do so worldwide, 
emphasizing regulation, reputation and quick 
market implementation. It is widely recognized 
for its efforts in advancing blockchain technology 
and ensuring sustainability and security within 
the industry. 
To operate in Gibraltar, cryptocurrency companies 
must obtain a licence from the Gibraltar Financial 
Services Commission (GFSC) under the Financial 
Services Act of 2019. The GFSC reviews 
applications and may grant a licence if certain 
criteria are met. Gibraltar has clear regulatory 
frameworks such as the Financial Services 
Regulations of 2020, which regulate firms such as 
cryptocurrency exchanges and wallet providers.
Taxation under the Gibraltar Companies Act of 
2014 exempts dividends, capital gains and income 
generated from digital asset transactions if they occur 
outside Gibraltar.25 This tax framework is attractive 
for companies and investors focused on blockchain-
related activities, significantly reducing the tax burden 
on cross-border digital asset transactions. 
Approach by topic 
 
  Anti-money laundering (AML) 
        and know your customer (KYC) 
The GFSC sets KYC and AML principles, requiring 
firms to maintain records, monitor systems and 
report suspicious activities while allowing adaptation 
to evolving challenges. This regulatory framework 
aims to balance effective oversight with the need for 
innovation and growth in the financial sector.26
 
  Regulatory and technical sandboxes
Gibraltar’s regulatory sandboxes allow companies 
to test new products in a controlled environment, 
ensuring compliance and reducing risks before 
market launch. The GFSC oversees these initiatives, 
ensuring that the products are tested within strict 
regulatory parameters to safeguard consumer 
interests and maintain market stability.27
 
  Decentralized finance (DeFi)
Gibraltar’s proactive DeFi regulation by the 
GFSC ensures flexibility, transparency, security 
and consumer protection while avoiding overly 
prescriptive rules.28 The GFSC’s regulatory 
sandbox plays a significant role in this approach, 
allowing DeFi projects to test their products 
and services in a controlled environment. 
Furthermore, the GFSC collaborates closely 
with industry stakeholders to stay updated on 
technological advances and emerging trends in 
DeFi, ensuring that regulations remain relevant 
and effective. 
 
  Privacy and security
The GFSC mandates stringent data protection 
and cybersecurity measures for blockchain 
businesses, ensuring compliance with international 
standards such as GDPR. Additionally, the 
Proceeds of Crime Act provides thorough guidelines 
on security and privacy, facilitating a stable 
commercial setting for businesses.29 Moreover, it 
provides clear guidelines on risk management and 
the safeguarding of customer assets to prevent 
data breaches and unauthorized access. This 
proactive regulatory stance helps build trust and 
creates a secure environment for digital asset 
transactions in Gibraltar.30
Outcomes
There has been an influx of companies to Gibraltar’s 
digital assets ecosystem on account of its favourable 
regulatory environment. The presence of digital asset 
firms in the country is expanding, with more entities 
establishing operations there. 
Additionally, Gibraltar’s regulatory framework has 
attracted international businesses, bolstering 
economic growth and positioning the territory 
as a competitive hub for digital assets. Moving 
forward, the country aims to continue enhancing its 
regulatory landscape to sustain growth and attract 
more blockchain innovators.
Unintended consequences
Gibraltar’s straightforward regulatory compliance 
processes have the potential to attract firms seeking 
regulatory arbitrage opportunities. Specifically,the 
ease of acquiring DLT provider licences and lower 
operational costs in Gibraltar have significantly 
reduced the barriers to entry. This could attract less 
desirable market players and intensify regulatory 
arbitrage practices, as companies look to benefit 
from Gibraltar’s more accommodating regulatory 
environment. There has been a lack of harmonization 
of Gibraltar’s regulatory practices with other 
economies in the region.The possibility of regulatory 
arbitrage exists in these gaps between jurisdictions 
and there needs to be a greater focus on cross-
border cooperation on these regulatory requirements.
 Gibraltar’s 
tax framework 
is attractive for 
companies and 
investors focused 
on blockchain-
related activities, 
significantly 
reducing the tax 
burden on cross-
border digital asset 
transactions.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
11
1.3	 Hong Kong SAR, China  
General approach 
In Hong Kong, the Financial Services and the 
Treasury Bureau (FSTB) of the Hong Kong 
government issued the Policy Statement on 
Development of Virtual Assets31 in October  
2022, setting out the vision and policy direction 
for the regulation of virtual/digital asset activities 
under the “same activity, same risks, same 
regulation” principle. 
In June 2023, the Hong Kong government 
further established the high-level Task Force 
on Promoting Web3 Development. Premised 
on a balance between appropriate regulation 
and promoting development, the task force will 
provide recommendations on the sustainable and 
responsible development of virtual/digital assets 
and Web3 in Hong Kong.
The FSTB and financial regulators, including 
the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA) and 
Securities and Futures Commission (SFC), aim 
to establish a facilitating environment that puts in 
place timely and necessary guardrails to mitigate 
actual and potential risks in accordance with 
international standards.
Approach by topic 
 
  Anti-money laundering (AML) 
        and know your customer (KYC) 
Under the Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-
Terrorist Financing Ordinance (AMLO) and the 
Securities and Futures Ordinance (SFO), the SFC 
plays a pivotal role in setting clear mandates and 
guidelines for KYC and AML/CFT regulations 
applicable to virtual/digital asset-related activities.32 
For instance, all SFC-licensed corporations and 
SFC-licensed VA trading platforms33 are required 
to adhere to AML/CFT regulations specifically 
tailored to virtual/digital assets, ensuring stringent 
compliance measures are in place. 
In addition to KYC obligations that address AML/
CFT risks, an SFC-licensed corporation dealing 
in virtual/digital assets or an SFC-licensed VA 
trading platform is required to, among other 
things, conduct a virtual/digital asset knowledge 
assessment for each retail client.
The SFC provides comprehensive guidelines on 
other important areas relevant to the operations 
of SFC-licensed VA trading platforms, such as 
safe custody of assets, avoidance of conflicts 
of interest, admission of high liquidity and large-
cap virtual/digital assets for retail trading and 
prevention of market-manipulative and abusive 
activities, as well as accounting and auditing, risk 
management and cybersecurity requirements. 
These aim to facilitate compliance and ensure 
transparency within the virtual/digital asset market, 
and serve as a roadmap for market participants, 
helping them navigate regulatory requirements 
and maintain compliance standards.34 
For stablecoin issuers, a proposed regulatory 
regime will set out AML/CFT requirements and 
require issuers to have in place adequate systems 
of control for preventing or combatting possible 
money laundering and terrorist financing, including 
customer due diligence measures, transaction 
monitoring and Travel Rule requirements in 
compliance with the standards set by the FATF.
Addressing these challenges will be key to Gibraltar 
sustaining its reputation as a trustworthy and 
innovative hub for digital assets. In the future, 
Gibraltar will wish to strike a balance between 
its appealing regulatory framework and strong 
enforcement measures to curb potential abuses.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
12
 
  Regulatory and technical sandboxes
The SFC has offered a regulatory sandbox since 
2017. The sandbox seeks to provide a confined 
regulatory environment for qualified firms to operate 
regulated activities before fintech is used on a fuller 
scale. VA trading platforms are expected to enter 
the sandbox upon being licensed.35 
For the HKMA, among its full suite of sandboxes 
administered since 2016, a sandbox for stablecoin 
issuers was launched in March 2024 that enables 
the HKMA to communicate supervisory expectations 
and guidance to institutions that plan to issue 
stablecoins in Hong Kong. It also provides a means 
for the HKMA to obtain feedback from sandbox 
participants on proposed regulatory requirements.36
Intermediaries may approach the SFC and the 
HKMA to discuss their plans on virtual/digital 
asset-related activities and seek clarification 
of regulatory requirements.
 
  Decentralized finance (DeFi)
Hong Kong’s regulators critically assess 
DeFi services or activities to understand the 
arrangements and examine the actual substance  
of the DeFi arrangements. Specifically, DeFi 
activities are scrutinized through the existing 
regulatory framework and requirements under 
the AMLO and the SFO that apply to regulated 
financial activities. This balances innovation with 
regulatory integrity, addressing financial stability 
and protecting investors. 
In the banking sector, there is growing interest in 
exploring the DLT that underlies the VA ecosystem 
with a view to incorporating it into traditional 
financial market operations. In light of this, the 
HKMA provided relevant guidelines in 2024 on the 
most important risk-management considerations 
when banks use DLT-based solutions.37 
 
  Privacy and security
Hong Kong’s regulatory approach to virtual/
digital assets emphasizes robust privacy and 
security measures. Overall, personal data 
privacy is well safeguarded by the Personal Data 
(Privacy) Ordinance, which gives statutory effect 
to internationally recognized data protection 
principles and establishes the Office of the Privacy 
Commissioner for Personal Data as an independent 
statutory authority to monitor data privacy 
protection in Hong Kong and take enforcement 
actions where necessary. 
For virtual/digital assets, the HKSAR government 
prioritizes consumer data protection in line 
with FATF standards to ensure the responsible 
growth of Hong Kong’s landscape. The HKSAR 
government also encourages continuous 
improvement and adaptation of cybersecurity 
technologies, ensuring that the virtual/digital 
assets sector remains resilient to evolving threats. 
The guidelines on AML/CTF promulgated by the SFC 
require financial institutions to assess the adequacy 
and robustness of data privacy and security controls 
of the VA transfer counterparty in the VA transaction 
as part of the due diligence process. In addition, 
to ensure that clients’ virtual/digital assets are 
adequately safeguarded, intermediaries in Hong 
Kong are required, among other things, to partner 
only with SFC-licensed VA trading platforms in 
providing VA dealing services. The SFC and the 
HKMA have also imposed standards on digital 
asset custody on licensed VA trading platforms38 
and banks39 in line with international practices. 
Under the proposed regulatory regime for 
stablecoin issuers, licensees will be required 
to maintain reserve assets that fully back the 
stablecoins in circulation, as well as provide a legal 
right for holders to redeem the stablecoins at par at 
all times, thus ensuring user protection. In addition, 
issuers will be required to have in place robust 
cybersecurity measures to address both existing 
cyber risks and emerging risks that are unique 
to the blockchain and VA ecosystem.
Outcomes
Hong Kong is renowned for having developed 
a dynamic and adaptable environment for 
virtual/digital assets. This is attributed to the 
comprehensive and clear regulatory system in Hong 
Kong. The licensing regime for VA service providers 
in 2023 is one of the first to not only comply with 
international AML/CTF requirements as stipulated 
by the FATF but also provide full regulatory 
requirements on investor protection, which has been 
recognized by the International Monetary Fund.
On investor education, through the publicity 
campaigns and educational programmes created 
by the SFC, the Investor and Financial Education 
Council (IFEC) and the HKMA, Hong Kong is 
strengthening the knowledge and understanding of 
virtual/digital assets among investors and heightening 
awareness of digital asset-related regulatory 
obligations among industry professionals. With these 
efforts, Hong Kong is reinforcing its intention to work 
with and attract well-meaning industry players.40 
Further, with its sandbox for stablecoin issuers 
and efforts on various digital asset-related 
activities, Hong Kong is seeking to develop a 
collaborative environment among regulators and 
industry participants, encouraging the creation of 
products that are both innovative and compliant. 
This approach enhances the transparency and 
robustness of the digital assets ecosystem, which 
ultimately furthers Hong Kong’s commitment to 
regulatory clarity and user protections. 
 In the banking 
sector, there is 
growing interest 
in exploring the 
DLT that underlies 
the VA ecosystem 
with a view to 
incorporating it into 
traditional financial 
market operations.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
13
Unintended consequences 
There have been some unintended consequences 
of Hong Kong’s efforts to regulate virtual/digital 
assets. While the SFC and the HKMA have 
implemented regulations for the intermediaries 
and exchanges concerned, licensed VA trading 
platforms are currently not allowed to offer digital 
asset futures contracts or related derivatives.41 
Acknowledging the importance of such products 
to institutional investors, the SFC has undertaken 
to conduct a separate review, while these products 
could currently be offered by other market 
participants with the requisite licences. Although 
the SFC has indicated that the scale of VA trading 
platform operations is not expected to be small, 
given the nature of the business activities, increased 
operational costs could create barriers for new 
entrants in the blockchain space.42,43
Licensed VA trading platforms are also not allowed 
to make arrangements to use client assets for 
generating returns (e.g. proof-of-stake staking 
activities, a popular method for earning rewards 
with digital assets, are excluded). This may pose 
challenges to some industry players and affect 
the growth of VA trading platforms. In line with 
international practices, the licensing requirements 
as statutorily stipulated are activity-based, not 
entity-based. There may be room for additional 
clarity as to whether certain companies (e.g. play-
to-earn, NFT and utility token businesses) need 
to be licensed.
1.4	 Japan  
General approach 
Japan’s Financial Services Agency (FSA) plays 
a pivotal role in shaping policies and enforcing 
regulations, while the Japan Virtual Currency 
Exchange Association (JVCEA) and the Japan 
Security Token Offering Association (JSTOA) 
contribute to creating rules and policies tailored 
to their respective areas of oversight.
The FSA serves as the primary point of contact 
for digital asset regulations, ensuring consistency 
and coherence in regulatory oversight.44 It has 
spearheaded amendments to the Payment 
Services Act (PSA), establishing the legal status 
of tokens based on their functions and uses.45 
Moreover, self-regulatory organizations play an 
important role in guiding new industry players 
through the licensing process and navigating 
the complex business landscape in Japan.46  
Lastly, Japan has the world’s first international 
stablecoin passportability regime in which 
regulatory equivalence for regulated foreign- 
issued stablecoins is supported.
Approach by topic 
 
  Anti-money laundering (AML) 
        and know your customer (KYC) 
Japan maintains strict KYC and AML regulations 
for digital asset exchanges and businesses. These 
regulations require companies to conduct thorough 
KYC verification of their customers and implement 
AML measures to prevent illicit financial activities. 
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
14
Registration under the PSA ensures strict KYC/AML 
adherence and customer asset segregation. Doing 
this reduces the balance-sheet exposure risks to 
which customers may be subject when storing their 
assets on a given platform.47 
 
  Regulatory and technical sandboxes
To encourage innovation in the sector, Japan 
offers regulatory and technical sandboxes, with a 
special focus on stablecoin-specific sandboxes. 
Through these environments, stablecoin issuers 
have the opportunity to collaborate directly with 
regulatory authorities and gain insights into 
compliance requirements.
By focusing on stablecoins, Japan aims to show its 
forward-thinking approach to regulatory oversight, 
acknowledging the unique characteristics and 
potential impact of stablecoins on the financial 
landscape. In order to help maintain healthy 
collaboration with the private sector, Japan’s 
sandbox structure is detailed, transparent and 
readily available to market players.48
 
  Decentralized finance (DeFi)
Japan has recognized the transformative potential 
of DeFi and remains cautious about its regulatory 
implications. Japan mandates that DeFi companies 
obtain licences from the FSA and comply with 
existing financial regulations, ensuring DeFi 
platforms adhere to the same standards as 
traditional financial institutions, mitigating risks.
 
  Privacy and security
Japan’s approach to privacy and security has been 
informed by early lessons from significant security 
breaches, such as the Mt. Gox and Coincheck 
hacks.49 These incidents served as wake-up calls 
for regulators and industry participants in Japan.
To mitigate the risks, Japan requires cryptocurrency 
exchanges to segregate investors’ assets from 
exchange assets, reducing loss risks from breaches 
or insolvency. This measure and others like it 
demonstrate the government’s commitment to 
proactively addressing potential issues of privacy 
and security within the digital assets ecosystem.50 
Outcomes
The regulatory approach in Japan has fostered 
a healthy and predictable relationship between 
the public and private sectors, enabling 
new companies to navigate the compliance 
requirements effectively. The FSA has led the 
charge, ensuring consistency in and coherence of 
regulatory oversight by amending the PSA based 
on new developments.51 
Registration procedures outlined in the PSA 
ensure the segregation of customer assets from 
company holdings, and ultimately provide greater 
transparency and protection for investors.52  
By mandating this separation, Japan enhances 
consumer protections and instils greater 
confidence in the security of digital assets 
exchanges. Further, by reacting to past incidents, 
and implementing robust security measures, 
Japan mitigates risks associated with digital asset 
custodians and safeguards the interests of its 
customers in the space.
Unintended consequences 
Even with Japan’s forward-thinking approach, 
unintended consequences have emerged. The 
country’s token listing process, although aimed 
at ensuring compliance and investor protection, 
initially faced challenges, with a lengthy pipeline 
of listings awaiting approval. However, the FSA 
and JVCEA have responded by streamlining 
the approval process, balancing AML and CFT 
measures with efforts to promote innovation 
among new companies seeking approval.53
Despite these efforts, regulated entities operating 
in Japan report significant compliance costs, 
leading some companies to exit the Japanese 
market.54 Companies have expressed concern 
regarding the record-keeping rules and capital 
requirements, which they perceive as overly 
burdensome. Balancing regulatory oversight with 
the need to promote innovation remains a priority 
for Japanese regulators as they continue to refine 
their approach to digital assets regulation.
 To mitigate risks, 
Japan requires 
cryptocurrency 
exchanges 
to segregate 
investors’ assets 
from exchange 
assets, reducing 
loss risks from 
breaches or 
insolvency.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
15
General approach 
In recent years, Singapore has become a digital 
asset hub in Asia, building on its reputation as a 
leading fintech centre.55 The Monetary Authority of 
Singapore (MAS) is the primary regulator of digital 
assets. Principle legislation includes the Payment 
Services Act 2019 (PS Act) and the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2022.56,57 
The MAS has issued a proposed regulatory 
framework under the PS Act for digital payment token 
(DPT) service providers, such as cryptocurrency 
exchanges, which implements various operational 
requirements and customer protection measures. 
Under this proposal, which was amended in April 
2024 and is taking effect in stages, DPT service 
providers are required to obtain a licence to offer 
their services in Singapore. Platforms are prohibited 
from offering retail customers margin trading or 
any incentives to trade. As a condition of listing 
a cryptoasset, platforms must disclose potential 
conflicts of interest, publish the criteria that govern the 
listing and establish customer dispute procedures.
The clear guidance offered by the MAS, combined 
with other influencing factors in the jurisdiction such 
as low tax rates, established financial infrastructure 
and high cryptocurrency adoption among the 
population, has led to the region generally being 
viewed favourably by industry players.58 Globally, 
the MAS is also viewed as a leader in cross-border 
cooperation, frequently partnering with other 
nations to advance international conversations  
on digital assets.59
Approach by topic 
 
  Anti-money laundering (AML)  
        and know your customer (KYC) 
Singapore has been a member of the Financial 
Action Task Force (FATF) since 1992 and complies 
with FATF recommendations on anti-money 
laundering and counter-terrorism financing.60 MAS 
implemented the Travel Rule through its 2019 
Notice on the Prevention of Money Laundering  
and Countering the Financing of Terrorism.61 
1.5	 Singapore  
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
16
The country’s KYC requirements include the 
disclosure by both the originator and the beneficiary 
customer of personally identifiable information (PII) 
for transactions greater than or equal to SGD 1,500 
($1,130). Additionally, Singapore’s national digital 
identity programme, Singpass, provides digital 
identity for both citizens and businesses.62 
The MAS has also consulted on a proposed 
regulatory approach for stablecoin-related activities, 
which outlines the AML and CFT requirements for 
stablecoin issuers in Singapore.63
 
  Regulatory and technical sandboxes
The MAS has a fintech regulatory sandbox that, 
contingent on approval into the sandbox, enables 
innovative market players to experiment with 
their new financial products and services, which 
could include blockchain-related use cases.64 The 
sandbox’s framework sets boundaries and the 
duration of experiments, providing a structured 
pathway for new financial technology applications 
to develop and comply with regulatory standards. 
Once the sandbox period ends, entities must be 
compliant with requirements. 
 
  Decentralized finance (DeFi)
While the MAS has begun experimenting with 
various initiatives and has warned consumers 
about the risks of DeFi, regulation on this topic 
is still in development given the complexity, 
nature of transactions and protocol governance 
considerations. DeFi is regulated under the Securities 
and Futures Act and the Payment Services Act, but 
these do not fully address all DeFi activities.
 
  Privacy and security 
The MAS released guidance to strengthen 
consumer protections and deter speculative 
investing, recommending that businesses check 
customers’ knowledge and user risk profiles before 
offering certain incentives.65 It issued guidelines 
that ban cryptocurrency advertisements in public 
areas and on websites accessible to members of 
the general public. These measures aim to protect 
consumers by minimizing their exposure to high-risk 
investment products.66
MAS has also ordered investor protection measures 
such as mandating that certain customers’ assets 
be kept in a trust, and not allowing service 
providers to “facilitate lending and staking of  
DPTs by their retail customers”.67 
Outcomes 
Due to the regulatory clarity provided, Singapore 
is viewed as an emerging leader in digital assets 
regulation and has attracted companies looking 
to expand their presence in the country. This is 
particularly apparent on topics including token 
issuance procedures, wallet issuer rules and 
protocols for exchanges.68 Overall, the rules 
outlined in the PSA and the government’s focus 
on consumer awareness have bolstered investor 
confidence in the industry as well as a relatively 
transparent business environment in which 
companies can operate.69
Specifically, the country’s fintech regulatory 
sandbox provides a predictable regulatory sandbox 
environment for market players to test their 
new products, and its framework around DPTs 
gives relevant guidance to DeFi market players.
An additional example of Singaporean regulatory 
leadership is the development, co-creation and 
promotion of “lighthouse projects” that the MAS 
showcases at the annual Singapore Fintech Festival. 
Unintended consequences 
While Singapore is generally viewed as digital asset-
friendly, it does have strict rules in the market.70 
Several criticisms by industry players have thus 
surfaced. For example, there was opposition to the 
proposed MAS consumer protections measures 
that ban lending and staking:71 the Blockchain 
Association Singapore (BAS) argued that these 
regulations seemed too extreme and advocated 
reconsideration of the measures, stating that a 
primary incentive for individuals to hold on to their 
digital assets is the interest they earn and that there 
may be an unintended consequence of “pushing 
people to seek out unregulated offshore firms to 
lend their tokens to”.72,73 Proponents of the ban 
argue that although regulating digital payment token 
service providers might result in fewer of these 
players operating in the country, it would ultimately 
reduce risks for consumers in the long run. 
 Due to the 
regulatory 
clarity provided, 
Singapore is 
viewed as an 
emerging leader 
in digital assets 
regulation and 
has attracted 
companies looking 
to expand their 
presence in the 
country.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
17
1.6	 Switzerland  
General approach 
Due to the fact that Swiss legislation is principle-
based and technology-agnostic, most of its 
existing legal provisions may also be applied 
to virtual assets. Switzerland does not provide 
for comprehensive, stand-alone virtual assets 
regulation. Therefore, there are only a very few 
targeted regulatory instruments specifically 
designed for virtual assets that mainly focus the 
transfer of such assets from a civil law perspective. 
Furthermore, Swiss legislators introduced a specific 
framework for a DLT trading facility. Other than that, 
the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority 
(FINMA) issued guidance on how to handle virtual 
assets within the given legal framework in practice; 
for example, with regard to the scope of the Banking 
Act or the AML Act. Important frameworks include 
the Financial Services Act (FinSA), the Financial 
Institutions Act (FinIA), the Anti-Money Laundering 
Act (AMLA), the Financial Market Infrastructure Act 
(FMIA) and guidelines for initial coin offerings (ICOs), 
facilitating investment and industry growth.74,75
The clarity and predictability of Switzerland’s 
regulatory framework has attracted investors and 
digital asset companies seeking a stable jurisdiction 
for their operations.76 The country’s favourable tax 
laws have further bolstered its attractiveness, leading 
prominent companies such as blockchain labs and 
foundations to establish their headquarters there. 
More than 1,000 blockchain businesses have chosen 
Switzerland as their base, reflecting the country’s 
status as a leading hub for blockchain innovation.77
Approach by topic 
 
  Anti-money laundering (AML) 
        and know your customer (KYC) 
Switzerland demonstrates a proactive stance 
on KYC and AML regulations, with FINMA and 
the Swiss Federal Council leading the way. Their 
progressive approach is evidenced by specific 
amendments to the Anti-Money Laundering 
Ordinance (AMLO) and supplemental guidelines 
issued by FINMA as to the scope of the AML Act.
Switzerland’s AML legislation provides clarity and 
guidance on AML requirements for entities operating 
in the digital assets space. These regulations 
mandate robust KYC procedures to verify the 
identities of customers and ensure compliance with 
AML standards. There have been several advances 
in AML legislation and in May 2024, the Federal 
Council adopted a dispatch on strengthening the 
anti-money laundering framework.78 
 
  Regulatory and technical sandboxes
Switzerland’s approach to promoting innovation 
in the digital assets sector is highlighted by 
FINMA’s regulatory and technical sandboxes. 
These offer a controlled environment in which 
start-ups and established companies exploring 
blockchain-based offerings can test products 
and services while engaging with regulators to 
ensure compliance, mitigating risks and ensuring 
consumer protection.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
18
 
  Decentralized finance (DeFi)
Switzerland adopts a technology-neutral stance on 
decentralized finance (DeFi), prioritizing compliance 
and regulatory clarity. FINMA oversees DeFi 
projects under the same regulatory frameworks 
as other financial institutions, focusing on 
transparency, security and AML. DeFi platforms 
must adhere to the FMIA and FinSA for market 
integrity and consumer protection.
 
  Privacy and security
Switzerland’s regulatory landscape emphasizes 
privacy and security, enforced through the Swiss 
Data Protection Act (DPA) and aligned with 
GDPR. Companies are encouraged to adopt 
cryptographic techniques and secure protocols to 
protect data integrity and privacy, ensuring secure 
transactions. This includes using secure smart 
contracts and decentralized networks to minimize 
the risk of data tampering and fraud. 
Outcomes
Switzerland’s proactive approach, guided by 
bodies such as FINMA and the Swiss Federal 
Council, underscores the country’s commitment 
to maintaining a secure and transparent financial 
ecosystem. By applying existing legal provisions to 
virtual assets, consumer and investor confidence 
have increased, ultimately supporting the market 
integrity of its digital assets ecosystem. 
Regarding sandboxes, by providing a structured 
environment for experimentation, FINMA enables 
companies to explore innovative blockchain 
solutions within a supportive regulatory environment. 
Through these regulatory and technical sandboxes, 
Switzerland is actively promoting collaboration 
between industry stakeholders and regulators, 
driving the development of cutting-edge technology 
applications while safeguarding investor interests 
and financial stability. This approach has positioned 
Switzerland as a leading hub for digital assets 
innovation globally, attracting entrepreneurs and 
businesses seeking a conducive environment for 
technological advancement.
Unintended consequences 
While Switzerland’s regulatory approach to digital 
assets has been lauded for its innovation-friendly 
environment, it has also faced challenges, such 
as crypto-related crimes. A new regulatory 
environment may inadvertently attract bad actors 
that could facilitate scams and illicit activities, 
damaging the country’s ecosystem.79
Like other countries at the forefront of crypto 
regulation, Switzerland runs the risk of failing to 
ensure regulatory reciprocity between Swiss-
based operators and their EU counterparts. 
Cooperation and regulatory development with 
other jurisdictions should be the focus of  
attention as development continues. 
Exploring these challenges can support 
Switzerland’s role as a key player in cryptocurrency 
innovation, developing an environment that is 
inclusive and accessible to all participants. As a 
result, regulatory efforts are needed to navigate  
the complexities associated with these activities  
in the future.
 Switzerland 
adopts a 
technology-
neutral stance 
on decentralized 
finance (DeFi), 
prioritizing 
compliance and 
regulatory clarity.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
19
1.7	 United Arab Emirates  
General approach
The UAE promotes a business-friendly climate for 
digital assets.80 The central bank does not license 
cryptocurrencies and they cannot be used as legal 
tender; however, they can be owned and traded.81,82
In Dubai, the Dubai Financial Services Authority 
(DFSA) serves as a long-standing regulator for the 
Dubai International Financial Centre (DIFC) and 
has created a new regulator, the Virtual Assets 
Regulatory Authority (VARA).83 In 2022, UAE’s 
Law No. (4), Regulating Virtual Assets in the 
Emirate of Dubai, established VARA with the aim 
of positioning the country as a pioneering force 
in the digital assets arena.84 The ultimate goal of 
VARA is to balance growth with security in order 
to promote responsible and sustainable growth 
of the digital assets ecosystem. It addresses 
a number of regulatory concerns, which has 
provided clarity for new and existing market 
players and defines virtual assets clearly.85 In 
March 2024, the DIFC announced the enactment 
of its Digital Assets Law.86 Alongside this, its new 
Law of Security and amendments to existing 
legislation are designed to provide clarity to 
investors and help ensure the zone keeps up 
with technological developments.
In Abu Dhabi, it is worth noting that the Abu 
Dhabi Global Market (ADGM) was among the 
first regulators in the world to require authorized 
exchanges to pre-clear any tokens they wished 
to list with the regulator first prior to making the 
tokens available to the public.
Approach by topic
 
  Anti-money laundering (AML) 
        and know your customer (KYC) 
The main driver of AML compliance in the UAE 
remains the central bank, which in conjunction with 
other relevant regulators has issued common UAE-
wide guidance on AML.87 
VARA emphasizes the importance of KYC 
and AML protocols for market players in its 
jurisdiction. It does this by mandating licences 
for any company that is an intermediary between 
digital assets and fiat, offers borrowing or lending 
services and facilitates the transfer of virtual 
assets, among other activities. Further, VARA 
requires virtual assets service providers (VASPs) to 
maintain effective AML and CFT protocols relevant 
to their virtual asset activities.88 For international 
players, the DFSA provides AML/CFT guidance. 
 
  Regulatory and technical sandboxes
The UAE has established regulatory and technical 
sandboxes for market players, which aim to provide 
clear insights for companies that plan to launch 
products in the jurisdiction. In conjunction with its 
sandbox environments, the UAE also promotes 
active dialogue between public and private sectors 
in the space.89 
 
  Decentralized finance (DeFi)
As part of its strategy to become a prominent 
regional hub, the UAE has fostered a cooperative 
atmosphere that supports a broad spectrum of 
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
20
decentralized finance applications with the aim of 
attracting DeFi companies to not only do business 
in the country but also be headquartered there.90
 
  Privacy and security
The UAE has implemented stringent customer 
and data protection measures for VASPs. VARA 
requires secure storage and transmission practices 
to protect customer data and prevent breaches and 
unauthorized access.91 VASPs are able to ensure 
that they are complying with security and privacy 
measures through the country’s robust sandbox 
environment ahead of product launches.92
Outcomes 
The UAE’s approach to digital assets regulation has 
resulted in positive outcomes for both consumers and 
businesses, creating a healthy business environment 
that encourages investment and innovation.93 This 
has led to a number of industry leaders expanding 
their operations into the jurisdiction in recent years.94
The sandbox environment in the UAE has helped 
position the country as a favourable landscape for 
companies building a variety of products including 
wallets, decentralized autonomous organizations 
(DAOs), utility tokens, NFTs and decentralized 
applications (dApps).95 
Unintended consequences
Although VARA has established itself as a leading 
authority in the country, regulatory fragmentation 
across the UAE’s seven emirates has created 
complexities and compliance challenges for 
businesses as well as differences in treatment 
between onshore and offshore players. This 
fragmentation can lead to inconsistencies in 
the application and enforcement of regulations, 
making it difficult for companies to maintain 
uniform compliance standards. As a result, 
businesses could face increased operational 
costs and legal uncertainties.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
21
1.8	 United Kingdom  
General approach
The digital assets regulatory framework under 
development in the United Kingdom primarily 
focuses on creating stable market conditions, 
enhancing investor protections and providing an 
environment that fosters innovation. The regulation 
distinguishes between digital securities and 
unbacked cryptoassets and stablecoins, which 
is where most of the new regulation is coming 
into effect. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
regulates digital assets under broader financial 
services legislation.96 Notably, the Financial 
Services and Markets Act of 2023 provides 
extensive guidance on financial matters, including 
the treatment of digital asset settlements.
The UK is currently considering further regulatory 
action in order to protect consumers and support 
innovation in its jurisdiction.97 In October 2023, the 
UK’s Law Commission suggested the establishment 
of a distinct property category for digital assets, 
proposed a technical oversight group and supported 
the applicability of existing common law to digital 
asset issues.98 The government is currently evaluating 
these recommendations. Most recently, His Majesty’s 
Treasury (HMT) issued a consultation response to 
the future financial services regulatory regime for 
cryptoassets. This response provides an overview 
of the government’s position on trading venues, 
custody, staking and other important issues.99
For the regulation of fiat-backed stablecoins, the 
UK strives to provide predictability for market 
participants by incorporating them into existing 
legislation, as outlined in Discussion Paper 23/4 on 
Regulating Cryptoassets Phase 1: Stablecoins.100
Approach by topic
 
  Anti-money laundering (AML) 
        and know your customer (KYC)
The financial promotion rules for cryptoassets offer 
detailed guidelines for businesses wishing to offer 
financial promotions, while managing a customer’s 
journey – which includes performing relevant KYC 
and AML checks.101,102 The intended goal of such 
new licensing requirements is to provide a safe 
and predictable environment in which companies 
can operate.
 
  Regulatory and technical sandboxes
In order to promote a conducive environment 
for innovation, the UK has established regulatory 
sandboxes, allowing industry participants to test 
and develop new products. The UK’s permanent 
Digital Sandbox and Digital Securities Sandbox 
aim to provide a controlled environment for testing 
digital asset products.103,104
The Digital Securities Sandbox is specifically 
designed to ensure the responsible development of 
new technology products, such as DLT. It enables 
market players to work directly with members of 
the FCA and the Bank of England to make the 
necessary adjustments to their products in essential 
topic areas such customer protections.105
 
  Decentralized finance (DeFi)
Aiming to be a leading regulated jurisdiction, 
HMT is focused on regulating DeFi through its 
Future Financial Services Regulatory Regime for 
  UK regulation 
distinguishes 
between digital 
securities and 
unbacked 
cryptoassets and 
stablecoins, which 
is where most of 
the new regulation 
is coming into 
effect.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
22
Cryptoassets response, which emphasizes its aim 
of maintaining a balanced approach to challenges  
in DeFi regulation.106 
The government is currently working through a set 
of consultation requests with industry players before 
bringing forth any prescriptive frameworks. As part of 
its focus on DeFi, the UK aims to prioritize eliminating 
regulatory arbitrage as a focus area in the future. 
 
  Privacy and security  
Collaboration between the FCA and the UK’s 
Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) is aimed 
at building a transparent set of norms for digital 
asset custodians, particularly concerning staking 
and lending, emphasizing risk identification and 
consumer protection.107 
The FCA has laid out strict rules on cryptocurrency 
advertisements, emphasizing the need for clarity 
to protect consumers from misleading claims. 
Regulations require crypto-related ads to be fair, 
not to be misleading and to be accompanied by 
the appropriate set of risk warnings.108
Outcomes 
The financial promotion rules for cryptoassets 
help companies to expand their operations in the 
country due to the regulatory transparency on AML 
and KYC measures. They enhance consumer trust 
and have played a role in attracting large firms to 
operate in the jurisdiction.
As businesses have adapted their procedures 
to meet these standards, the digital assets 
market has become more resilient in the UK. 
The alignment of major companies with these 
comprehensive regulatory standards has promoted 
a safer investment climate, potentially driving 
further institutional investment and supporting 
sustainable growth in the digital assets ecosystem 
within the country. 
The UK’s forward-thinking approach to DeFi has 
attracted more companies.109 The FCA is exploring 
a regulatory sandbox specifically for DeFi projects to 
promote innovation while ensuring compliance. The 
Treasury aims to deliver similar regulatory outcomes 
across centralized crypto services and DeFi 
equivalents to mitigate regulatory arbitrage risks.110
Unintended consequences
The UK faces challenges in making decisions in the 
digital assets space because of the multiple agencies 
that are attempting to create regulations, including 
HMT, FCA, PRA and the Bank of England. The 
additional licence requirements resulting from the 
Financial Services Markets Act were met with varied 
reactions from industry players. This has the potential 
to deter start-ups and newcomers from entering a 
market that requires greater capital commitments 
upfront. Some overly stringent regulations may even 
cause companies to withdraw.111
1.9	 United States of America  
General approach
The United States has a fragmented approach to 
digital assets regulation, with a host of different 
regulatory agencies involved such as the Securities 
and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Commodities 
Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the 
Department of the Treasury, among others. 
Various pieces of federal legislation have been 
proposed over the past few years, all of which 
aim to establish jurisdictional boundaries and 
provide clarity to regulatory bodies as to how 
digital assets should be regulated. Recent 
examples have focused on two main aspects of 
digital assets: stablecoins and market structure. 
Related to stablecoins, the Lummis-Gillibrand 
Payment Stablecoin Act in the US Senate aims 
to establish a thorough set of regulations for the 
issuance of stablecoins and the management of 
the associated reserves and market structure; in 
addition, the McHenry Payment Stablecoin Act has 
passed the US House of Representatives. On the 
latter, the House of Representatives passed the 
Financial Innovation and Technology for the 21st 
Century Act (FIT 21), which provides a regulatory 
framework for the operation of digital assets 
markets.112 The bill is poised to advance to the 
Senate for further consideration. 
Additionally, both the House of Representatives 
and Senate passed House Joint Resolution 
109 in the hope of overturning the SEC’s Staff 
Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 121, which 
mandates that custodians holding digital assets 
on behalf of customers recognize a liability on 
their balance sheets, potentially raising the level of 
capital required from banks that decide to custody 
digital assets.113,114 This marked the first time that 
both chambers of the US legislature passed digital 
asset-relevant legislation. President Joe Biden 
vetoed the resolution, citing potential risks to 
consumer and investor protections, keeping  
SAB-121 in effect. 
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
23
Although some of the federal regulation has not yet 
been implemented, the US approach has benefitted 
in some cases from a federated model in which 
major financial centres such as New York can 
advance the digital assets environment. 
Approach by topic 
 
  Anti-money laundering (AML) 
        and know your customer (KYC) 
AML and KYC policies in the United States 
include several key regulations. The Financial 
Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) within the 
Department of the Treasury mandates that digital 
asset exchanges and administrators must register as 
money service businesses (MSBs) and comply with 
AML requirements, including implementing thorough 
KYC procedures to verify customer identities.115 
The United States also adheres to the FATF 
Recommendations, which set international 
standards on AML and KYC for VASPs, ensuring 
that VASPs implement adequate KYC procedures 
and comply with the Travel Rule.116
 
  Regulatory and technical sandboxes
Several states have regulatory sandbox 
programmes that can benefit blockchain initiatives, 
including Arizona, Florida, Hawaii, Nevada, North 
Carolina, Utah, West Virginia and Wyoming.117 
Arizona and Wyoming in particular have made 
progress. Arizona established a regulatory 
sandbox in 2018, allowing fintech companies to 
test innovative products with reduced regulatory 
burdens.118 Wyoming, known for its crypto-friendly 
stance, has also developed a progressive sandbox 
to encourage blockchain innovation.119 
On a federal level, the Consumer Financial 
Protection Bureau (CFPB) introduced a digital 
sandbox to encourage innovation in financial 
products and services. The sandbox allowed 
entities to experiment with compliance solutions 
under the supervision of the CFPB, ensuring that 
consumer protections were maintained during the 
testing phase.120 However, to date there has not 
been widespread use of the CFPB’s sandbox.
 
  Decentralized finance (DeFi)
The United States has approached DeFi regulation 
in several ways, focusing on transparency, 
consumer protection and market integrity. FATF 
guidance, adopted by the country, recommends 
that DeFi protocols adhere to AML and KYC 
standards. Also, the SEC and the CFTC attempted 
to apply existing securities and commodities 
laws to DeFi platforms, requiring registration and 
compliance with financial regulations and filing 
enforcement actions in the absence of guidance.
A key component of FIT21 is the way that it 
promotes innovation in a host of industries by 
creating a pathway to compliance for decentralized 
networks. For example, FIT21 provides a route 
for the digital assets of computational networks 
and even social networks to receive appropriate 
and safe regulatory treatment that matches the 
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
24
technology; this would address important open 
questions of DeFi regulation while ensuring that 
innovation can thrive across industries.
 
  Privacy and security
The United States takes a multifaceted approach to 
privacy and security policies. The SEC, FinCEN and 
CFTC enforce strict guidelines to ensure compliance 
and protect users’ data. The SEC mandates that 
blockchain and crypto companies adhere to the 
same privacy and security standards as traditional 
financial institutions, requiring comprehensive 
protections to prevent data breaches and ensure 
the confidentiality of user information.121
Additionally, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) 
enforces consumer protection laws that apply to 
digital assets, ensuring that companies maintain 
transparent privacy policies and secure user data 
against unauthorized access.122 
Outcomes 
Due to a lack of federal-level regulatory guidance, 
states have taken the lead on building and 
implementing the appropriate policies, which 
has helped companies navigate growth in these 
regions. States such as Wyoming have also passed 
progressive legislation recognizing decentralized 
autonomous organizations (DAOs) as legal entities, 
further bolstering innovation and investment in the 
digital assets sector. In addition, Wyoming has 
passed a series of blockchain-friendly laws, such 
as recognizing the legal status of digital assets 
and creating a new type of bank, special purpose 
depository institutions (SPDIs), specifically for 
handling digital assets. This legal clarity has attracted 
several blockchain businesses to certain states.123
The US is an important digital assets market 
and the country’s laissez-faire approach has 
promulgated the advent of tokenized money market 
funds and dollar dominance of the stablecoin 
segment. In addition, while some in crypto perceive 
the US to be too heavy-handed when it comes to 
combatting illicit finance, others believe that the 
tougher approach has ultimately been a positive 
for the industry. The US has also been a leader in 
enabling industry participation and dialogue. 
Unintended consequences 
In 2022, devastating consumer losses and multiple 
bankruptcies highlighted weaknesses in the 
industry, underscoring the urgent need for a more 
comprehensive regulatory framework.124 Total 
cryptoasset-related fundraising grew sixfold, from 
approximately $3 billion in 2020 to $22.63 billion for 
2023. However, the share of such fundraising deals 
that take place in the United States has fallen every 
year. Numerous reports attribute this decline to 
ongoing regulatory uncertainty in the US relative to 
other jurisdictions.125 
In the absence of regulatory clarity, companies 
have pointed to an unworkable “regulation by 
enforcement” approach, which industry players 
argue inhibits their ability to grow predictably in 
the country. This is despite digital asset companies 
actively petitioning for more concrete rules and 
regulations and increased clarity.126,127 Industry 
voices highlight a lack of clarity regarding which 
regulatory bodies have jurisdiction in certain 
circumstances, causing several market leaders to 
expand their presence overseas.128 Such industry 
voices view greater coordination among regulatory 
entities as a necessity for improving regulation  
in the US.
 Due to a 
lack of federal-
level regulatory 
guidance, states 
have taken the 
lead on building 
and implementing 
the appropriate 
policies, which has 
helped companies 
navigate growth 
in these regions.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
25
Recommendations
2
Jurisdictional analyses revealed insights that 
can be beneficial for policy-makers, regulators 
and private-sector leaders as they aim to shape 
effective digital asset environments.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
26
In conducting the jurisdictional analysis, certain 
recommendations surfaced for policy-makers, 
regulators and private-sector leaders working to 
shape digital asset environments that meet their 
goals. Particular topics and suggestions arose 
regularly in conversations with public- and  
private-sector stakeholders.
Since these recommendations are influenced by 
several jurisdictions, they can provide guidance on a 
jurisdictionally agnostic basis. By relying on existing 
data points, public-sector leaders can build and 
implement policies that have the greatest chance 
of achieving their intended objectives, as well 
as avoiding familiar pitfalls. 
The recommendations below result from 
jurisdictional analysis to date, and directly address 
the four aforementioned key topics: anti-money 
laundering (AML) and know your customer (KYC); 
regulatory and technical sandboxes; decentralized 
finance (DeFi); and privacy and security.
2.1	 Anti-money laundering (AML) and know  
your customer (KYC) recommendations
Technology-enhanced solutions
Policy-makers and regulators as well as private-
sector stakeholders should explore the adoption of 
technology-enhanced solutions to meet AML and 
KYC requirements in the jurisdictions. Technology-
enhanced solutions can help jurisdictions achieve 
their specific goals in relation to preserving 
consumer data rights and ecosystem security. 
To simplify implementation and reduce costs, 
technology solutions for KYC processes that are 
employed for other financial use cases should be 
considered. This can include the use of digital identity 
verification methods and blockchain technology to 
streamline processes while enhancing accuracy 
and security. For example, the use of privacy-
preserving KYC solutions that leverage cryptographic 
techniques such as zero-knowledge proofs to 
validate user identities without exposing personal 
data has proven useful for enhancing AML and 
KYC goals. Additionally, artificial intelligence (AI) and 
advanced analytics platforms have been effective 
in monitoring and detecting suspicious activities. 
Specifically, real-time analytics platforms that uncover 
anomalies and identify illicit activities have proven 
effective in serving as a deterrent for bad actors.
Global cooperation
To date, jurisdictions have generally taken a 
fragmented approach to cross-border AML 
and KYC policy creation and implementation 
for existing financial use cases. For digital asset 
regulation in particular, given the increasingly 
international make-up of industry players and the 
nature of borderless blockchains, public-sector 
leaders globally must strengthen international 
cooperation in this topic area. In order to facilitate 
cooperation, there must be open dialogue between 
regulators and the digital assets industry to share 
best practices and challenges in AML and KYC 
compliance. Additionally, collaborative efforts 
must not only be between industry players and 
the public sector domestically, but also include 
international collaboration. This will enable 
comprehensive AML and KYC oversight globally 
and significantly enhance the regulatory landscape 
for all parties. There is a crucial role for standard-
setters as the development of global standards is 
a key pillar for enhancing certainty and consistency 
of regulatory approaches. 
Training and compliance 
programmes
AML and KYC policies that have proven effective 
often emphasize thorough training and compliance 
programmes. These policies call for ongoing 
education on the importance of AML and KYC, 
emerging financial crime trends and the tactical use 
of new tools to remain compliant. 
Additionally, effective regulations in this arena 
frequently mandate that digital asset service providers 
regularly update and train their staff on AML and 
KYC regulations.129 This ensures that their technology 
application stacks and employee knowledge remain 
up-to-date with evolving financial crime methods, 
ultimately enhancing overall compliance and security 
in the digital assets ecosystem.
 For digital 
asset regulation 
in particular, given 
the increasingly 
international 
make-up of 
industry players 
and the nature 
of borderless 
blockchains, 
public-sector 
leaders globally 
must strengthen 
international 
cooperation in 
AML and KYC.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
27
2.2	 Regulatory and technical sandbox 
recommendations  
Clear sandbox objectives 
and support mechanisms
In various jurisdictions, the sandboxes that 
achieve their intended objectives are designed  
with specific goals and criteria for participation. 
This helps ensure that sandbox initiatives are 
focused, are driven by clear objectives and 
offer high value for public- and private-sector 
participants. Having a timeline or specific steps  
to receive regulatory approval can provide 
structure and clear milestones. However, 
timebound sandboxes might not be suitable for  
all companies, as some products require more 
time than others to achieve their objectives.  
A flexible approach is necessary to accommodate 
these variations and ensure that the sandbox  
can adapt to different needs.
In addition, support mechanisms such as providing 
hands-on regulatory guidance for participants 
can also help innovators navigate the regulatory 
landscape while testing new products and services 
in a controlled environment.
Insights gained from sandbox experiments should 
inform and adjust regulatory frameworks, ensuring 
that they remain relevant and conducive to innovation. 
It is also crucial that sandboxes include a clear path 
to implementation once the sandbox concludes. 
Regulators need to consider carefully how sandboxes 
will provide a route to long-term sustainability for the 
businesses that participate in them; otherwise, they 
risk deterring innovative actors from participating.
Collaborative ecosystems
Effective sandboxes foster collaborative 
environments in which public-sector officials and 
innovators can share insights, challenges and 
feedback. They should also improve transparency 
and feedback mechanisms within the sandboxes to 
ensure that start-ups receive timely and constructive 
responses, facilitating better development and 
regulatory compliance.
In addition, government leaders should encourage 
cross-border collaboration on sandbox initiatives 
to harmonize regulatory approaches and share 
lessons learned. International cooperation can help 
address the cross-jurisdictional nature of digital 
assets and ensure consistent regulatory standards. 
Diverse and broad networks
Throughout the jurisdictions analysed, 
sandboxes often have mechanisms for sharing 
insights and feedback, leading to practical 
policy and regulatory outcomes. Cross-border 
collaboration on sandbox initiatives can also 
harmonize regulatory approaches and ensure 
consistent standards.
To maximize the benefits of sandboxes,  
policy-makers and regulators should prioritize 
creating enabling environments for a diverse pool 
of candidates. By including diverse participants, 
this helps ensure a wide range of products  
and challenges are explored. 
Establishing international networks for cross-
border testing enhances learning and facilitates 
knowledge transfer, while improving transparency 
and feedback mechanisms ensures timely 
responses for start-ups, aiding in regulatory 
compliance. Moreover, specialized sandboxes 
for technology applications are essential 
to regulate uncharted activities and prevent 
market fragmentation. 
 Regulators 
need to consider 
carefully how 
sandboxes will 
provide a route 
to long-term 
sustainability for 
the businesses 
that participate in 
them; otherwise, 
they risk deterring 
innovative actors 
from participating.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
28
2.3	 Decentralized finance (DeFi) recommendations
Sandbox-first approach
Jurisdictions that show signs of progress in 
addressing the rapidly evolving DeFi ecosystem 
are those that address its complexity through 
a nimble, sandbox-first approach. The success 
of regulatory sandboxes highlights the potential 
for collaborative innovation in DeFi. Regulatory 
sandboxes provide a controlled environment in 
which developers can experiment with digital 
assets and decentralized protocols. 
This approach facilitates the development of 
guidelines and regulations that are both practical 
and forward-looking for industry players who aim 
to innovate in the space. Sandboxes ultimately help 
ensure that regulatory measures keep pace with 
technological advances in DeFi, creating a dynamic 
and compliant ecosystem.
Risk mitigation
Policy-makers and regulators that have 
demonstrated advances in DeFi regulation 
have begun to work directly and alongside DeFi 
platforms to ensure appropriate disclosure of 
risks to users. DeFi applications include a wide 
array of use cases, some of which provide access 
to social media protocols, while others facilitate 
access to decentralized identify-management 
systems. These applications pose different risks 
depending on their use case. Policy for DeFi 
should be calibrated to the risks posed by specific 
DeFi application. This may include consistent 
and clear communication about the risks of using 
specific DeFi applications and protocols and the 
potential for loss when interacting with applications 
that take custody of user funds or involve some 
form of financial consideration. Consistent and 
clear communication is needed about the risks of 
participating in DeFi protocols, the potential  
for loss when interacting with these types of 
products and the nascent nature of many  
players in this ecosystem. 
Developing a clear, effective regulatory framework 
for DeFi is critical. Implementing licensing models 
that account for the decentralized nature of DeFi 
has enabled progress. These models should 
increasingly consider the unique characteristics 
of DeFi’s underlying technology applications and 
prioritize regulating the services that sit on top of 
these protocols rather than the infrastructure itself. 
This approach, which focuses on the governance 
structures and DeFi operational models, helps 
ensure transparency and accountability within 
DeFi platforms, mitigating risks and ultimately 
protecting consumers.
Parameter definitions
Where policies have achieved their aims, policy-
makers have worked with industry players to 
create definitions for DeFi activities and establish an 
appropriate regulatory framework. It is important to 
ensure that different definitions of “decentralization” 
are accounted for, as there are various interpretations 
based on the activity levels of DeFi players. 
In general, legacy financial regulation was written 
with an issuer or entity-centric framework. While 
this made sense for cases in which there was an 
identifiable business with a centralized management 
team, for decentralized digital assets, such 
entity-centric frameworks do not align with the 
technology. Policy-makers and regulators should 
therefore explore the possibility of achieving the 
crucial aims of protecting consumers, maintaining 
market integrity and promoting innovation by 
calibrating requirements and parameter definitions 
for decentralized networks. 
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
29
2.4	 Privacy and security policy recommendations
Consumer-focused
Effective security and privacy-related policies 
generally embody a consumer-centric approach. 
Since individual consumers may take on risk 
when engaging in the space, end users should be 
considered the key stakeholder group requiring 
protecting through policies. 
Effective policies implement education campaigns 
to raise awareness about the importance of 
security practices in the digital asset space. These 
initiatives might include workshops, online courses, 
communication with the public to increase awareness 
and partnerships with academic institutions to ensure 
that retail consumers can access crucial information. 
By developing a culture of security awareness, such 
policies help build a more resilient and informed user 
base, ultimately reducing the risk of security breaches 
and fraud in the digital asset space.
Clear and consolidated
A common feature of successful security  
and privacy policies is the establishment of a  
central authority within a jurisdiction to oversee 
digital asset regulations, which can help clarify 
guidelines and minimize the potential for regulatory 
arbitrage. While not a requirement for success, 
having one authoritative body means that security 
protocols and standards can be uniformly applied  
in digital asset platforms. 
Further, having a centralized authority within 
a jurisdiction can simplify operations for 
companies implementing privacy and security 
technology applications. In line with this, there 
should be international cooperation to align 
policies in different jurisdictions. The presence 
of a dedicated regulatory body can lead to more 
proactive updates to security and privacy 
policies, addressing emerging threats and 
technological advances promptly. This may  
apply not just to security and privacy policies  
but potentially also to digital assets policy 
development as a whole because it can provide 
consistency and transparency. 
Technology-enabled
Forward-looking policies often use enhanced 
analytic tools that can provide policy-makers 
with data when monitoring and enforcing rules 
(e.g. real-time risk alerts). It is important to require 
digital asset companies to undergo regular  
security audits and compliance checks to  
mitigate potential risks appropriately. 
Encouraging the use of privacy-preserving 
technology applications that protect user 
identities as well as their financial information  
helps build comprehensive and resilient policy. 
Moreover, technology alone cannot preserve 
privacy; proper data management is crucial, 
particularly in deciding what information should 
be recorded on blockchains.
 Encouraging 
the use of privacy-
preserving 
technology 
applications 
that protect user 
identities as well 
as their financial 
information  
helps build 
comprehensive 
and resilient policy. 
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
30
Conclusion
There is a need for comprehensive,  
adaptable regulations that meet the differing 
needs of individual jurisdictions and for  
ongoing public–private dialogue to ensure 
effective and future-ready frameworks.
The increasing complexity of the digital assets 
regulatory landscape underscores the importance 
of comprehensive regulation in the years to come. 
Policy-makers and regulators face a demanding 
road ahead as they attempt to devise adaptable 
strategies, prepare for upcoming industry challenges 
and maintain a transparent regulatory environment. 
By analysing the regulatory landscape across nine 
jurisdictions in which progress has been made, 
this report uncovers valuable lessons and provides 
public-sector leaders with important insights as they 
build and implement new rules.
In this critical period for digital asset regulation, it 
is also important for public-sector leaders to focus 
on select key topic areas. Four of the industry’s 
most pressing issues as discussed in the report 
are anti-money laundering (AML) and know 
your customer (KYC); regulatory and technical 
sandboxes; decentralized finance (DeFi);  
and privacy and security. 
Finally, the ongoing dialogue between public-
sector authorities and private-sector participants 
ensures that regulations are not only responsive 
to current demands but also adaptable to future 
developments. A well-defined and flexible regulatory 
framework, informed by diverse experiences, is 
paramount because it provides the clarity necessary 
for the industry. By engaging with a variety of 
stakeholders, policy-makers and regulators can 
better navigate the complexities inherent in this fast-
paced industry. The thoughtful integration of global 
insights and company-specific data into regulatory 
practices can enhance the agility of regulatory 
frameworks in the future. This proactive stance not 
only prepares the market for immediate shifts but 
also sets a strong foundation for the future.
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
31
Contributors
Acknowledgements
Steering Committee
Jeremy Allaire	
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, 
Circle Internet Financial
Rodolphe Baroukh	
Deputy Head of Savings and Financial Markets, 
French Treasury
Armel Castets	
Deputy Director of International Corporate Finance 
and Foreign Trade, French Treasury
Denelle Dixon
Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director, 
Stellar Development Foundation
Brad Garlinghouse
Chief Executive Officer, Ripple
Badr Salim A. Al Olama
Adviser to His Excellency the Chairman, Abu Dhabi 
Department of Economic Development, Abu Dhabi 
Investment Office
Michael Sonnenshein
Chief Executive Officer, Grayscale Investments 
(June 2023–May 2024)
Itay Tuchman
Chief Executive Officer, Consello Digital (August–
November 2023)
Working Group and Reviewers
Charles Adkins	
President, Hedera Council, Hedera Hashgraph
Olaiya Ajadi	
Head of Government Relations and Regulatory 
Strategy, UK, Middle East and Africa, London Stock 
Exchange Group 
Moritz Baier-Lentz	
Partner, Head of Gaming and Interactive Media, 
Lightspeed Venture Partners	
Justin Banon	
Co-Founder, Boson Protocol
Anna Baranowska	
Executive Director, Compliance Products 
and Services, Julius Baer
Chloe Barz	
Director, International Government and External 
Affairs, Robinhood Markets
Lauren Belive	
Head, Public Policy and Government, Ripple
Nuntapun Bhensook	
Assistant Director, Digital Currency Policy and 
Development Unit, Bank of Thailand
Lee Brenner	
Head of Public Policy for Digital Assets, Goldman 
Sachs
Authors
Shawn Dej
Lead, Blockchain and Digital Assets, 
World Economic Forum
Sandra Waliczek
Lead, Blockchain and Digital Assets, 
World Economic Forum
The World Economic Forum wishes to extend 
special thanks to Sarah Hubbard for her research 
efforts and related contributions to this report.
World Economic Forum 
Matthew Blake
Head, Centre for Financial and Monetary Systems, 
World Economic Forum
Drew Propson
Head, Technology and Innovation in Financial 
Services, World Economic Forum
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
32
Tara Burchmore 
Economic Policy Fellow, Office of Senator Gillibrand, 
US Senate
Paul Chan Mo-Po
Financial Secretary of the Government of the Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region 
Dominique Chaubon	
Deputy Head of the French Treasury Office 
in New York, Embassy of France
Lesley Chavkin 
Head of Policy, Stellar Development Foundation 
(October 2022–February 2024)
Ezechiel Copic
Director, Digital Currency Policy, Visa
Dante Disparte	
Chief Strategy Officer and Head, Global Policy, 
Circle Internet Financial
Sam Dreiman	
Policy and Government Relations, Ripple
Maria José Escribano	
Banking and Finance Lawyer, BBVA
Ziyang Fan	
Head, International Government Relations Policy, 
PayPal
Richard Fenner
Director, Government Relations, Euroclear
Hervé François	
Partner, Blockchain/Digital Assets fund, Investcorp 
Holdings (April 2023–May 2024)
Dan Gallagher
Chief Legal Compliance and Corporate Affairs 
Officer, Robinhood Markets
Cédric Garcin
Head of French Department of Treasury and 
Economic Affairs in New York, Embassy of France
Carlota Giralt Castellano	
Digital Regulation, BBVA
Robert Grant	
Vice-President, Global Head of Public Policy, Ripple 
(August 2023–April 2024)
Carole House	
Senior Fellow, Atlantic Council and Executive in 
Residence, Terranet Ventures
Michael Horowitz	
Chief Executive Officer, Seal Storage Technology
John Hubbard	
Chief of Staff, Grayscale Investments
Sarah Hubbard	
Senior Fellow, Ash Center for Democratic 
Governance and Innovation, Harvard University
Jae Jang
Senior Policy Advisor to Congressman French Hill, 
US House of Representatives
Wookyung Jung	
Policy Analyst, Tech and Innovation, International 
Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL)
Candace Kelly	
Chief Legal Officer, Stellar Development Foundation
Peter Kerstens
Adviser, Financial Sector Digitalization 
and Cybersecurity, European Commission
Devina Khanna
Economic Policy Adviser,  
US House of Representatives
Amy Kim	
Policy Lead, Blockchain, Crypto and Digital 
Currencies, PayPal
Klaus Lober	
Chair of the Central Counterparties (CCP) 
Supervisory Committee, European Securities 
and Markets Authority
Ross MacKay
Chief Operating Officer, CasperLabs
Mrinal Manohar	
Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder, 
CasperLabs
Timothy Massad	
Senior Fellow, Director, Harvard Kennedy School 
Digital Assets Policy Project, Harvard University
Congressman Patrick McHenry
Chairman, House Financial Services Committee, 
US House of Representatives
John Nahas	
Vice-President of Business Development, 
Avalanche
Katey Neate	
Chief Risk Officer, Securities Servicing and Digital, 
BNY
Madan Oberoi	
Executive Director, Technology and Innovation, 
International Criminal Police Organization 
(INTERPOL)
Yannick Oberson	
Executive Director, Head Governmental Affairs 
International, UBS
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
33
Bryan Pellegrino	
Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer, 
LayerZero Labs
Pablo Portugal	
Senior Public Affairs Director, Regulatory, 
Compliance and Public Affairs, Euroclear 
Stratos Pourzitakis	
Senior Policy Manager, HSBC
Johnna Powell
Managing Director, Technology Research 
and Innovation, Depository Trust 
and Clearing Corporation (DTCC)
Monica Ramirez de Arellano
Head of Strategy, Digital Assets, BNY
Jennifer Rosenthal	
Vice-President, Communications, 
Grayscale Investments
Nilmini Rubin	
Chief Policy Officer, Hedera Hashgraph
Amando Russo	
Director of Communications, Crypto Council for 
Innovation
Craig Salm	
Chief Legal Officer, Grayscale Investments
Clifford Sarkin	
Chief of Strategic Relations, CasperLabs 
Lee Schneider	
General Counsel, Avalanche
Jirayut (Topp) Srupsrisopa	
Group Chief Executive Officer,  
Bitkub Capital Group Holdings
John Stackhouse	
Senior Vice-President, Royal Bank of Canada
Takaya Sugina	
Section Chief, Macroeconomic and Market Analysis 
Office, Financial Services Agency
Anne Termine	
Deputy General Counsel, Head of Policy, 
Regulatory and Litigation, Yuga Labs
Jiten Varu	
Head of Web3 EMEA, Amazon
Sheila Warren	
Chief Executive Officer, 
Crypto Council for Innovation
John Whelan	
Managing Director of Digital Investment Banking, 
Banco Santander
Zack Yang	
Co-Founder, FOMO Pay
Bryan Zhang 
Co-Founder and Executive Director, Cambridge 
Centre for Alternative Finance, University of 
Cambridge Judge Business School
Additionally, the authors would like to thank the 
policy-makers, regulators and industry leaders not 
listed here who shared their valuable insights and 
time through working group meetings, individual 
dialogues and written feedback.
Production
Laurence Denmark
Creative Director, Studio Miko
Alison Moore
Editor, Astra Content
Charles Phillips
Editor, Astra Content
Oliver Turner
Designer, Studio Miko
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
34
Endnotes
1.	
CoinMarketCap. Today’s cryptocurrency prices by market cap. Retrieved September 9, 2024, from https://coinmarketcap.com/ 
2.	
Bank for International Settlements. (2024). Annual economic report No. 147: Embracing diversity, advancing together – 
results of the 2023 BIS survey on central bank currencies and crypto. https://www.bis.org/publ/bppdf/bispap147.pdf
3.	
Forbes. (2024, July 26). Cryptocurrency prices today by market cap. https://www.forbes.com/digital-assets/crypto-
prices/?sh=73de0ac92478 
4.	
Atlantic Council. (n.d.). Cryptocurrency Regulation Tracker. Retrieved July 30, 2024, from  
https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/programs/geoeconomics-center/cryptoregulationtracker/ 
5.	
Bank for International Settlements. (2024). Annual economic report No. 147: Embracing diversity, advancing together – 
results of the 2023 BIS survey on central bank currencies and crypto. https://www.bis.org/publ/bppdf/bispap147.pdf 
6.	
European Securities and Markets Authority. (n.d.). Markets in Crypto-Assets Regulation (MiCA). Retrieved July 30, 2024, 
from https://www.esma.europa.eu/esmas-activities/digital-finance-and-innovation/markets-crypto-assets-regulation-mica 
7.	
European Union. (2023). Regulation (EU) 2023/1113 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 
https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:32023R1113
8.	
Shah, P. (2024). Europe’s blossoming admiration for crypto. CME Group. https://www.cmegroup.com/articles/2024/
europes-blossoming-admiration-for-crypto.html 
9.	
European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority. (n.d.). Digital Operational Resilience Act (DORA). 
Retrieved July 30, 2024, from https://www.eiopa.europa.eu/digital-operational-resilience-act-dora_en 
10.	
European Union. (2023). Regulation (EU) 2023/1113 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 
https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:32023R1113 
11.	
European Commission. (2021, July 20). Anti-money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism legislative 
package. https://finance.ec.europa.eu/publications/anti-money-laundering-and-countering-financing-terrorism-legislative-
package_en
12.	
European Commission. (n.d.). Overview of anti-money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism. Retrieved July 
30, 2024, from https://finance.ec.europa.eu/financial-crime/overview-anti-money-laundering-and-countering-financing-
terrorism_en 
13.	
European Parliament. (April 24, 2024). New EU rules to combat money laundering adopted [Press release].  
https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20240419IPR20586/new-eu-rules-to-combat-money- 
laundering-adopted 
14.	
FATF. (2022, June 30), Targeted update on implementation of the FATF Standards on virtual assets and virtual asset service 
providers. http://www.fatf-gafi.org/publications/fatfrecommendations/documents/targeted-update-virtual-assets-vasps.html 
15.	
European Commission. (n.d.). European Blockchain Sandbox: European blockchain regulatory sandbox for distributed 
ledger technologies. Retrieved July 30, 2024, from https://ec.europa.eu/digital-building-blocks/sites/display/EBSI/
Sandbox+Project 
16.	
Ibid. 
17.	
Portugal Digital. (2022). Technological Free Zones (ZLT). https://portugaldigital.gov.pt/en/accelerating-digital-transition-in-
portugal/testing-and-incorporating-new-technologies/technological-free-zones-zlt/ 
18.	
European Blockchain Sandbox. (2024, June). Best practices report – 1st Cohort, Part B. https://ec.europa.eu/ 
digital-building-blocks/sites/display/EBSISANDCOLLAB/Best+practices+report+2023+-+Part+B?previ
ew=/753860727/753860735/European%20Blockchain%20Sandbox%20-%20Best%20practices%20report%20-%20
Part%20B%20-%20Jun.2024.pdf
19.	
European Union. (2023). Regulation (EU) 2023/1114 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 May 2023 on 
markets in crypto-assets and amending Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 and Directives 2013/36/
EU and (EU) 2019/1937. https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/HTML/?uri=CELEX%3A32023R1114 
20.	
European Securities and Markets Authority. (2023). Decentralised finance in the EU: Developments and risks.  
https://www.esma.europa.eu/sites/default/files/2023-10/ESMA50-2085271018-3349_TRV_Article_Decentralised_
Finance_in_the_EU_Developments_and_Risks.pdf 
21.	
Weinstein, G. (2023, April 25). European Union outpaces unfocused United States in crypto regulation, but MiCA Article 68 
raises concerns. Forbes. https://www.forbes.com/sites/digital-assets/2023/04/25/european-union-outpaces-unfocused-
united-states-in-crypto-regulation-but-mica-article-68-raises-concerns/?sh=5c1030c4e590 
22.	
European Union. (2021). Summary of the opinion of the European Data Protection Supervisor on the Proposal for a 
Regulation on Markets in Crypto-assets, and amending directive (EU) 2019/1937. EUR-Lex. https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-
content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:52021XX0823(02)&from=EN 
23.	
Europol. (2023, March 15). One of Darkweb’s largest cryptocurrency laundromats washed out.  
https://www.europol.europa.eu/media-press/newsroom/news/one-of-darkwebs-largest-cryptocurrency-laundromats-
washed-out 
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
35
24.	
Europol. (2023, January 23). Bitzlato senior management arrested. https://www.europol.europa.eu/media-press/
newsroom/news/bitzlato-senior-management-arrested
25.	
Global Legal Insights. (2024). Blockchain and cryptocurrency laws and regulations 2024: Gibraltar. 
https://www.globallegalinsights.com/practice-areas/blockchain-laws-and-regulations/gibraltar/ 
26.	
Arctic Intelligence. (n.d.). AML/CTF compliance in Gibraltar. Retrieved August 15, 2024, from 
https://arctic-intelligence.com/countries/compliance-gibraltar 
27.	
International Comparative Legal Guides (ICLG). (2024). Gibraltar: Comparative Legal Guides: Fintech. https://iclg.com/
jurisdictions/gibraltar
28.	
Shumba, C. (2022, November 1). Gibraltar will focus on stablecoins and DeFi lending after market turmoil. CoinDesk. 
https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/11/01/gibraltar-will-focus-on-stablecoins-and-defi-lending-after-market-turmoil/ 
29.	
Government of Gibraltar. (2021, March 22). Proceeds of Crime Act 2015 (Transfer of Virtual Assets) Regulations 2021. 
https://www.gibraltarlaws.gov.gi/uploads/legislations/proceeds-of-crime/2021s194/2021s194.pdf#viewer.
action=download 
30.	
CMS Law. (n.d.). CMS expert guide to crypto regulation: Gibraltar. Retrieved August 15, 2024, from https://cms.law/en/int 
/expert-guides/cms-expert-guide-to-crypto-regulation/gibraltar
31.	
Financial Services and the Treasury Bureau of the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (2023). 
Policy Statement on Development of Virtual Assets in Hong Kong. https://gia.info.gov.hk/general/202210/31/P202210300
0454_404805_1_1667173469522.pdf 
32.	
Securities and Futures Commission. (2023). Guideline on anti-money laundering and counter-financing of terrorism 
(for licensed corporations and SFC-licensed virtual asset service providers). https://www.sfc.hk/-/media/EN/assets/
components/codes/files-current/web/guidelines/guideline-on-anti-money-laundering-and-counter-financing-
of-terrorism-for-licensed-corporations/AML-Guideline-for-LCs-and-SFC-licensed-VASPs_Eng_1-Jun-2023.
pdf?rev=d250206851484229ab949a4698761cb7 
33.	
Securities and Futures Commission. (n.d.). Virtual asset trading platforms operators. Retrieved July 30, 2024, from 
https://www.sfc.hk/en/Welcome-to-the-Fintech-Contact-Point/Virtual-assets/Virtual-asset-trading-platforms-operators
34.	
Lee, S., & Li, A. (2023). Breaking down Hong Kong’s new virtual asset guidelines. Crypto Council for Innovation. 
https://cryptoforinnovation.org/breaking-down-hong-kongs-new-virtual-asset-guidelines/
35.	
Securities and Futures Commission. (2017, September 29). Circular to announce the SFC Regulatory Sandbox. 
https://apps.sfc.hk/edistributionWeb/gateway/EN/circular/doc?refNo=17EC63#:~:text=The%20SFC%20recognises%20
that%20firms,the%20Hong%20Kong%20financial%20services 
36.	
Hong Kong Monetary Authority. (2024, March 12). HKMA announces new measures to support financial stability 
[Press release]. https://www.hkma.gov.hk/eng/news-and-media/press-releases/2024/03/20240312-4/ 
37.	
Hong Kong Monetary Authority. (2024, April 16). Risk management considerations related to the use of distributed ledger 
technology. https://www.hkma.gov.hk/media/eng/doc/key-information/guidelines-and-circular/2024/20240416e1.pdf
38.	
Securities and Futures Commission. (2023, June). Guidelines for virtual asset trading platform operators. https://www.sfc.
hk/-/media/EN/assets/components/codes/files-current/web/guidelines/Guidelines-for-Virtual-Asset-Trading-Platform-
Operators/Guidelines-for-Virtual-Asset-Trading-Platform-Operators.pdf?rev=f6152ff73d2b4e8a8ce9dc025030c3b8
39.	
Hong Kong Monetary Authority. (2024, February 20). Provision of custodial services for digital assets. 
https://www.hkma.gov.hk/media/eng/doc/key-information/guidelines-and-circular/2024/20240220e4.pdf
40.	
Droulers, A., & Ghosh, A. (2023, July 5). Why Hong Kong wants to be a hub for the crypto sector. Bloomberg. https://
www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2023-07-05/why-hong-kong-wants-to-be-a-hub-for-the-crypto-sector 
41.	
Au, L., & Handagama, S. (2023, May 23). Hong Kong securities regulator to accept license applications for crypto 
exchanges starting June 1. CoinDesk. https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2023/05/23/hong-kong-securities-regulator-to-
accept-license-applications-for-crypto-exchanges-starting-june-1/ 
42.	
Droulers, A., & Wong, K. (2023, June 16). Hong Kong doubles effort to help crypto industry with new initiatives. 
Yahoo Finance. https://finance.yahoo.com/news/hong-kong-doubles-effort-help-000054287.html?guccounter=1&guce_
referrer=aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbS8&guce_referrer_sig=AQAAABGaUYB_C9yoOkIBqLrFonc1JbQ63vFRGlo 
Cg4ts8XOjjouteWsAbWeXhY0clVA5u4BYeY0ZKpgUZTYDmlQbKt6mjjdMuTGptI3Ta6c6oVhBEYRrVJD8e3neYqzSK 
YvvUEAe7NY0VrWupFibVdyaDYtS9jgzHaLASsC6SunqhAOa
43.	
Au, L. (2023, August 4). Hong Kong’s new crypto license could cost exchanges a pretty penny. CoinDesk. 
https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2023/08/04/hong-kongs-new-crypto-license-could-cost-exchanges-a-pretty-penny/
44.	
Financial Services Agency. https://www.fsa.go.jp/en/ 
45.	
Japanese Law Translation. (n.d). Payment Services Act. Retrieved August 7, 2024, from 
https://www.japaneselawtranslation.go.jp/en/laws/view/3078/en 
46.	
Freeman Law. (n.d.). Japan and cryptocurrency. Retrieved August 7, 2024, from 
https://freemanlaw.com/cryptocurrency/japan/ 
47.	
Sanction Scanner. (n.d.) Cryptocurrency regulations in Japan. Retrieved August 7, 2024, from 
https://www.sanctionscanner.com/blog/cryptocurrency-regulations-in-japan-492#:~:text=Under%20the%20
PSA%2C%20cryptocurrency%20exchanges,providing%20greater%20protection%20to%20investors 
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
36
48.	
Cabinet Office, Government of Japan. (n.d.). Regulatory sandbox. Retrieved August 7, 2024, from https://www.cas.go.jp/
jp/seisaku/s-portal/regulatorysandbox_e.html 
49.	
Dale, B. (2023, January 24). Crypto Japan exchanges financial regulation. Axios. https://www.axios.com/2023/01/24/
crypto-japan-exchanges-financial-regulation 
50.	
Global Legal Insights. (n.d.). Japan: Blockchain and cryptocurrency laws and regulations – 2024. Retrieved August 7, 2024, 
from https://www.globallegalinsights.com/practice-areas/blockchain-laws-and-regulations/japan 
51.	
AMT Law. (2022, September 27). Amendments to the Payment Services Act and the Acton Prevention of Transfer of 
Criminal Proceeds, etc. (Introduction of Regulations on Stablecoins). https://www.amt-law.com/asset/pdf/bulletins2_
pdf/220927.pdf 
52.	
Sanction Scanner. (n.d.). Cryptocurrency regulations in Japan. Retrieved August 7, 2024, from 
https://www.sanctionscanner.com/blog/cryptocurrency-regulations-in-japan-492#:~:text=Under%20the%20
PSA%2C%20cryptocurrency%20exchanges,providing%20greater%20protection%20to%20investors 
53.	
Au, L. (2022, October 21). Some, not all, crypto token screenings will be scrapped, Japan’s JVCEA official says. CoinDesk. 
https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/10/21/some-not-all-crypto-token-screenings-will-be-scrapped-japans-jvcea-
official-says/ 
54.	
Crawley, J. (2023, January 18). Coinbase confirms it is halting operations in Japan. CoinDesk. https://www.coindesk.com/
business/2023/01/18/coinbase-confirms-it-is-halting-operations-in-japan/ 
55.	
Selby Jennings. (2023, November). Singapore’s rise as Asia’s fintech hub: A deep dive into fintech investment, crypto, 
and beyond. https://www.selbyjennings.sg/blog/2023/11/singapores-rise-as-asias-fintech-hub-a-deep-dive-into-fintech-
investment-crypto-and-beyond#:~:text=Singapore%20has%20rightfully%20earned%20its,.com%2C%20Airwallex%20
and%20Wise 
56.	
Monetary Authority of Singapore. (n.d.). Payment Services Act 2019. Retrieved August 7, 2024, from 
https://www.mas.gov.sg/regulation/acts/payment-services-act 
57.	
Monetary Authority of Singapore. (2022). Financial Services and Markets Act 2022. https://www.mas.gov.sg/regulation/
acts/financial-services-and-markets-act-2022 
58.	
Ahmed, H. (2024, February 22). Singaporeans crypto adoption remains high; staking emerges as top use case. Coinbase. 
https://www.coinbase.com/blog/singaporeans-crypto-adoption-remains-high-staking-emerges-as-top-use-case 
59.	
Monetary Authority of Singapore. (2023). MAS partners policy-makers to foster responsible digital asset innovation. 
https://www.mas.gov.sg/news/media-releases/2023/mas-partners-policy-makers-to-foster-responsible-digital-asset-
innovation/ 
60.	
Financial Action Task Force. (n.d.). Singapore. Retrieved August 8, 2024, from https://www.fatf-gafi.org/en/countries/
detail/Singapore.html 
61.	
Monetary Authority of Singapore. (n.d.). Prevention of money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism. 
Retrieved August 8, 2024, from https://www.mas.gov.sg/-/media/MAS/Regulations-and-Financial-Stability/Regulatory-
and-Supervisory-Framework/Anti_Money-Laundering_Countering-the-Financing-of-Terrorism/PSN02-Prevention-of-
Money-Laundering-and-Countering-the-Financing-of-Terrorism--Digital-Payment-Toke.pdf 
62.	
Smart Nation Singapore. (n.d.). National digital Identity. https://www.smartnation.gov.sg/initiatives/national-digital-identity/ 
63.	
Monetary Authority of Singapore. (2023, August 15). Response to public consultation on proposed regulatory approach 
for stablecoin-related activities. https://www.mas.gov.sg/-/media/mas-media-library/publications/consultations/pd/2023/
response-to-consultation-on-stablecoins-regulation_15aug2023.pdf
64.	
Monetary Authority of Singapore. (n.d.). Overview of regulatory sandbox. Retrieved August 7, 2024, from 
https://www.mas.gov.sg/development/fintech/regulatory-sandbox 
65.	
Monetary Authority of Singapore. (2023, November 3). MAS strengthens regulatory measures for digital payment token 
services [Press release]. https://www.mas.gov.sg/news/media-releases/2023/mas-strengthens-regulatory-measures-for-
digital-payment-token-services 
66.	
Monetary Authority of Singapore. (2022, January 17). Guidelines on provision of digital payment token services to the 
public. https://www.mas.gov.sg/regulation/guidelines/ps-g02-guidelines-on-provision-of-digital-payment-token-
services-to-the-public 
67.	
Monetary Authority of Singapore. (2023, July 3). MAS publishes investor protection measures for digital payment token 
services. https://www.mas.gov.sg/news/media-releases/2023/mas-publishes-investor-protection-measures-for-digital-
payment-token-services 
68.	
Standard Chartered. (2023, October 19). Smart regulation for digital assets: How the UAE and Singapore lead the way. 
https://www.sc.com/en/news/corporates/smart-regulation-digital-assets-uae-singapore-lead-way-2/ 
69.	
Ikigai Law. (2023, January 27). Cryptocurrency regulation in Singapore: Challenges and opportunities ahead. 
https://www.ikigailaw.com/article/231/cryptocurrency-regulation-in-singapore-challenges-and-opportunities-ahead 
70.	
Parker, E. (2023. December 14). Crypto-friendly does not mean crypto-easy. CoinDesk. https://www.coindesk.com/
opinion/2023/12/14/crypto-friendly-does-not-mean-crypto-easy/ 
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
37
71.	
Monetary Authority of Singapore. (2022, October 26). MAS proposes measures to reduce risks to consumers from 
cryptocurrency trading and enhance standards of stablecoin-related activities [Press release]. https://www.mas.gov.sg/
news/media-releases/2022/mas-proposes-measures-to-reduce-risks-to-consumers-from-cryptocurrency-trading-and-
enhance-standards-of-stablecoin-related-activities 
72.	
Ghosh, S. (2023, January 6). Singapore’s leading crypto group opposes proposed ban on lending tokens. Bloomberg. 
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2023-01-06/singapore-crypto-group-opposes-proposed-ban-on-lending-tokens 
73.	
Ibid.
74.	
Kamsky, A. (2023, July 19). Switzerland crypto regulation guide 2023. CNN. https://www.ccn.com/education/switzerland-
crypto-regulation-guide-2023/ 
75.	
Global Legal Insights. (n.d.). Switzerland: Blockchain laws and regulations 2023. Retrieved August 7, 2024, from 
https://www.globallegalinsights.com/practice-areas/blockchain-laws-and-regulations/Switzerland 
76.	
Kamsky, A. (2023, July 19). Switzerland crypto regulation guide 2023. CNN. https://www.ccn.com/education/switzerland-
crypto-regulation-guide-2023/ 
77.	
Denisenko, N. (2023, November 30). Crypto tax haven: Switzerland outpaces regulatory competition. Finance Magnates. 
https://www.financemagnates.com/cryptocurrency/crypto-tax-haven-switzerland-outpaces-regulatory-competition/ 
78.	
Federal Department of Finance. (2023, July 6). Switzerland strengthens anti-money laundering framework. 
https://www.newsd.admin.ch/newsd/message/attachments/87809.pdf 
79.	
SwissInfo. (2023, May 17). Swiss regulator shuts down rogue crypto school. https://www.swissinfo.ch/eng/sci-tech/swiss-
regulator-shuts-down-rogue-crypto-school/48519976
80.	
United Arab Emirates, the Cabinet. (2022). Cabinet resolution no. 111 of 2022 concerning the regulation of virtual assets 
and their service. Securities and Commodities Authority. https://www.sca.gov.ae/assets/d7a86b26/cabinet-resolution-no-
111-of-2022-concerning-the-regulation-of-virtual-assets-and-their-service.aspx 
81.	
Global Media Insight (GMI). (2024, May 21). Cryptocurrency in Dubai – guide for UAE crypto traders. 
https://www.globalmediainsight.com/blog/cryptocurrency-dubai/#:~:text=The%20Central%20Bank%20of%20
UAE,and%20deposit%20and%20trade%20them 
82.	
Mills, L. (2024, May 8). The rise of crypto in the UAE: A hub for innovation. Crypto for Innovation. https://cryptoforinnovation.
org/the-rise-of-crypto-in-the-uae-a-hub-for-innovation/ 
83.	
Government of Dubai: Virtual Assets Regulatory Authority (VARA). (n.d.). Retrieved August 7, 2024, from  
https://www.vara.ae/en/ 
84.	
Government of Dubai. (2022). Law No. (4) of 2022 regulating virtual assets. https://dlp.dubai.gov.ae/Legislation%20
Reference/2022/Law%20No.%20(4)%20of%202022%20Regulating%20Virtual%20Assets.html 
85.	
Jones Day. (2023, April). Dubai’s digital assets aspirations. https://www.jonesday.com/en/insights/2022/11/dubais-digital-
assets-aspirations#:%7E:text=VARA’s%20Authority&text=VARA%20is%20mandated%20to%20protect,expand%2C%20
and%20prohibit%20these%20activities 
86.	
Hunt, J. (2024, March 15). Dubai’s tax-free economic zone DIFC enacts new Digital Assets Law. The Block. 
https://www.theblock.co/post/282811/dubai-difc-digital-assets-law 
87.	
Central Bank of the UAE. (2023, February). Guidance for licensed financial institutions on risks related to virtual assets  
and virtual asset service providers. https://www.centralbank.ae/media/avwlktgy/cbuae-guidance-for-lfis-on-risks-related-
to-virtual-assets-and-virtual-assets-providers_final-clean-version1.pdf 
88.	
Government of Dubai: Virtual Assets Regulatory Authority. (n.d.). C. AML/CFT controls. Retrieved August 7, 2024, from 
https://rulebooks.vara.ae/rulebook/c-amlcft-controls
89.	
Ahmed, Y. A. (2023, November 3). XRP and TON cleared for use in Dubai financial hub. Yahoo Finance. 
https://finance.yahoo.com/news/xrp-ton-cleared-dubai-financial-063605176.html
90.	
F6S. (2024, August 15). 24 top DeFi companies and startups in United Arab Emirates in August 2024. 
https://www.f6s.com/companies/defi/united-arab-emirates/co 
91.	
Jones Day. (2023, April). Dubai’s digital assets aspirations. https://www.jonesday.com/en/insights/2022/11/dubais-digital-
assets-aspirations#:%7E:text=VARA’s%20Authority&text=VARA%20is%20mandated%20to%20protect,expand%2C%20
and%20prohibit%20these%20activities 
92.	
Government of Dubai. (2022). Law No. (4) of 2022 regulating virtual assets in the Emirate of Dubia. https://dlp.dubai.gov.ae 
/Legislation%20Reference/2022/Law%20No.%20(4)%20of%202022%20Regulating%20Virtual%20Assets.html 
93.	
Widmann, S. (2023, November 16). How the UAE became a crypto hub poised for explosive growth. Forbes. 
https://www.forbes.com/sites/digital-assets/2023/11/16/how-the-uae-became-a-crypto-hub-poised-for-explosive-
growth/?sh=19f7ec7e32a8 
94.	
Ahmed, Y. A. (2023, November 3). XRP and TON cleared for use in Dubai financial hub. Yahoo Finance. 
https://finance.yahoo.com/news/xrp-ton-cleared-dubai-financial-063605176.html
95.	
Watson Farley & Williams. (2023, July 17). Regulatory update: Regulation of virtual assets in the UAE. https://www.wfw.com/
articles/regulatory-update-regulation-of-virtual-assets-in-the-uae/ 
96.	
Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP. (2023, September 19). UK enacts legislation to bring cryptoassets within scope of 
existing financial services regulatory regime. https://www.akingump.com/en/insights/alerts/uk-enacts-regulation-of-crypto 
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
38
97.	
KPMG. (2023). A UK regulatory regime for cryptoassets. https://kpmg.com/xx/en/home/insights/2023/02/a-uk-regulatory-
regime-for-cryptoassets.html 
98.	
HM Treasury. (2023, October). Future financial services regulatory regime for cryptoassets: Response to the consultation 
and call for evidence. https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/media/653bd1a180884d0013f71cca/Future_financial_
services_regulatory_regime_for_cryptoassets_RESPONSE.pdf 
99.	
United Kingdom Law Commission. (2024, February 22). Digital assets: Call for evidence and draft legislation. 
Law Commission. https://lawcom.gov.uk/digital-assets-call-for-evidence-and-draft-legislation/
100.	
Financial Conduct Authority. (2023, November). Regulating cryptoassets phase 1: Stablecoins. https://www.fca.org.uk/
publication/discussion/dp23-4.pdf 
101.	
Financial Conduct Authority. (2023, June 7). Financial promotion rules for cryptoassets: Policy statement 23/6. 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publications/policy-statements/ps23-6-financial-promotion-rules-cryptoassets 
102.	
Legislation.gov.uk. (2023). Financial Services and Markets Act 2023. The National Archives. https://www.legislation.gov.uk 
/ukpga/2023/29/contents 
103.	
Financial Conduct Authority. (2023, July 20). Launch of permanent digital sandbox. https://www.fca.org.uk/news/news-
stories/launch-permanent-digital-sandbox 
104.	
Voisin, M., Hay, R., Le Vesconte, S., & Sanford, S. (2023, December 22). UK Digital Securities Sandbox set to take effect. 
Linklaters. https://www.linklaters.com/en/insights/blogs/fintechlinks/2023/december/uk-digital-securities-sandbox-set-to-
take-effect 
105.	
Bank of England & Financial Conduct Authority. (2024, April 3). Digital Securities Sandbox joint Bank of England and FCA 
consultation paper. Bank of England. https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/paper/2024/cp/digital-securities-sandbox-joint-
bank-of-england-and-fca-consultation-paper 
106.	
HM Treasury. (2023, October). Future financial services regulatory regime for cryptoassets: Response to the consultation 
and call for evidence. https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/media/653bd1a180884d0013f71cca/Future_financial_
services_regulatory_regime_for_cryptoassets_RESPONSE.pdf
107.	
Bank of England. (n.d.). Prudential regulation. Retrieved May 15, 2024, from https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/ 
prudential-regulation 
108.	
Financial Conduct Authority. (2024). Cryptoassets: AML/CTF regime. https://www.fca.org.uk/firms/financial-crime/
cryptoassets-aml-ctf-regime 
109.	
Craig, T., & Wright, J. (2023, February 2). UK floats DeFi oversight to mitigate crypto “regulatory arbitrage”. DL News. 
https://www.dlnews.com/articles/defi/uk-floats-defi-oversight-mitigate-crypto-regulatory-arbitrage/ 
110.	
Ibid. 
111.	
Shumba, C. (2023, October 4). Why some crypto firms are suspending services in the UK. CoinDesk. 
https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2023/10/04/why-some-crypto-firms-are-suspending-services-in-the-uk/
112.	
House Committee on Financial Services. (2024, May 22). House passes Financial Innovation and Technology for the 
21st Century Act with overwhelming bipartisan support. https://financialservices.house.gov/news/documentsingle.
aspx?DocumentID=409277 
113.	
Birnbaum, D. (2024, May 18). Bitcoin’s rising tide and the overturning of SAB 121. Forbes. https://www.forbes.com/sites/
davidbirnbaum/2024/05/18/bitcoins-rising-tide-and-the--overturning-of-sab-121/?sh=5cc9fb7c3da4 
114.	
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. (2022, April 11). Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 121. https://www.sec.gov/oca/
staff-accounting-bulletin-121
115.	
Department of the Treasury, Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. (2013, March 18). Application of FinCEN’s regulations 
to persons administering, exchanging, or using virtual currencies. https://www.fincen.gov/sites/default/files/shared/FIN-
2013-G001.pdf
116.	
Financial Action Task Force. (2021, June). Guidance for a risk-based approach: Virtual assets and virtual asset service 
providers. https://www.fatf-gafi.org/media/fatf/documents/recommendations/RBA-VA-VASPs.pdf 
117.	
Durham J. (2023). Regulatory sandboxes enable pragmatic blockchain regulation. Washington Journal of Law, Technology 
& Arts, 18(1). https://digitalcommons.law.uw.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1324&context=wjlta
118.	
Arizona Attorney General. (2018). Regulatory sandbox program. https://www.azag.gov/sandbox 
119.	
Wyoming Banking Division. (n.d.). Financial technology sandbox. Retrieved August 15, 2024, from 
https://wyomingbankingdivision.wyo.gov/banks-and-trust-companies/financial-technology-sandbox 
120.	
Buckley. (2022, September 29). CFPB rescinds no-action letter and sandbox policies. https://buckleyfirm.com/blog/2022-
09-29/cfpb-rescinds-no-action-letter-and-sandbox-policies 
121.	
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. (2023). Framework for “investment contract” analysis of digital assets. 
https://www.sec.gov/corpfin/framework-investment-contract-analysis-digital-assets 
122.	
Federal Trade Commission. (n.d.). Data security. Retrieved August 15, 2024, from https://www.ftc.gov/business-
guidance/privacy-security/data-security 
123.	
Wyoming Legislature. (2023). SF0076: Wyoming digital asset registration act. https://wyoleg.gov/Legislation/2023/SF0076 
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
39
124.	
Fletcher, E. (2022, June 3). Reports show scammers cashing in on crypto craze. Federal Trade Commission. 
https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/data-visualizations/data-spotlight/2022/06/reports-show-scammers-cashing-crypto-craze 
125.	
Program on International Financial Systems. (2024, June). Implementing an effective cryptoasset regulatory framework in 
the US. https://www.pifsinternational.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/05/PIFS-Implementing-an-Effective-Cryptoasset-
Regulatory-Framework-in-the-US.pdf
126.	
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. (2022, July 21). Re: Petition for rulemaking – digital asset securities regulation. 
https://www.sec.gov/files/rules/petitions/2022/petn4-789.pdf 
127.	
Ligon, C., & Nelson, D. (2024, May 21). Uniswap Labs urges SEC to drop pending enforcement action in Wells response. 
Coindesk. https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2024/05/21/uniswap-labs-urges-sec-to-drop-pending-enforcement-action-
in-wells-response/ 
128.	
Yaffe-Bellany, D. (2023, June 7). Crypto firms start looking abroad as U.S. cracks down. The New York Times. 
https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/07/technology/crypto-firms-start-looking-abroad-as-us-cracks-down.
html#:%7E:text=Coinbase%2C%20the%20largest%20crypto%20exchange,shut%20down%20its%20U.S.%20operations 
129.	
Euroclear. (2024, May 29). Digital asset securities control principles. Euroclear. https://www.euroclear.com/
newsandinsights/en/Format/Whitepapers-Reports/digital-asset-securities-control-principles.html 
Digital Assets Regulation: Insights from Jurisdictional Approaches
40
World Economic Forum
91–93 route de la Capite
CH-1223 Cologny/Geneva
Switzerland 
Tel.: 	+41 (0) 22 869 1212
Fax: +41 (0) 22 786 2744
contact@weforum.org
www.weforum.org
The World Economic Forum, 
committed to improving  
the state of the world, is the 
International Organization for 
Public-Private Cooperation.
 
The Forum engages the 
foremost political, business  
and other leaders of society  
to shape global, regional 
and industry agendas.
