Simplify your AML and Digital Assets Risk Management by leveraging AI and customizable alerts within our intuitive Transaction Monitoring System. Stay ahead of compliance and security challenges.
Master blockchain transaction investigation for any AML/CFT Compliance with our Exploration Tool, designed for seamless navigation and comprehensive analysis to ensure compliance and operational security.
Effortlessly generate detailed Know Your Transaction (KYT) and Know Your Address (KYA) reports with a single click
Leverage our comprehensive due diligence and assess risk for over 1000 VASPs, CEFIs and DEFIs
Enhance due diligence with real-time screening of wallets and transactions across leading blockchains for unparalleled security and compliance.
Our team can perform forensic crypto investigations to uncover stolen
Strengthen your compliance with comprehensive VASP analysis
Leverage our Blockchain Insights to whitelist your new stakeholders
Crypto Compliance, Simplified. Risks Managed. AML Regulations Met.
Empower your clients to invest in Digital Assets securely
Leverage Blockchain Analytics to empower crime prevention
Ensure market integrity and safeguard consumer interests
Collaborating with SCORECHAIN to enhance your own service offering.
Each of our partners have a strong knowledge and expertise about their industry
Join Scorechain Connect now. Fill out the form.
Customer due diligence
Join our dynamic team and contribute to cutting-edge solutions in a collaborative environment, where innovation meets expertise to shape the future of blockchain analytics and compliance.
What is
Customer due diligence
?
Customer due diligence is an AML/CFT process that financial institutions must implement. It consists in investigating a customer's background (identity, residential address, etc) and assessing their level of risk.Different situations trigger the need to conduct customer due diligence such as when:- entering a new business relationship;- transactions reach a certain threshold;- there is suspicion of money laundering;- the documentation transmitted by a customer is unreliable.Customer due diligence also allows companies to adopt a risk-based approach (RBA) by assessing their level of risk and adapting the level of due diligence for them.Today, more and more companies operating with cryptocurrencies are subject to customer due diligence. They should adopt proper processes to stay compliant with local AML/CFT regulations.
Streamline your Digital Assets Compliance
Copyright ©2024 Scorechain. Made in Europe 🇪🇺