A Distributed Intellectual Property and
Company Mergers & Acquisitions Marketplace Amir Kaltak1, Wajid Ali Khilji2, Maija Majamäki3 January 2018
1 Important Notice
This document and information contained herein may not be sent and or addressed
wholly or in part, directly or indirectly, to any person in the United States or Sin-
gapore, or any other jurisdiction in which it would be impermissible or otherwise
restricted to oﬀer, distribute, purchase, sell or retain cryptographic tokens.  PLEASE READ ALL PARTS OF THIS NOTICE CAREFULLY. THIS WHITEPAPER IS TO BE
READ IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE TOKEN SALE AGREEMENT AND ITS TERMS AND
CONDITIONS TO BE SUPPLIED. All deﬁnitions contained in this notice shall bear the same meaning as provided in
the Whitepaper unless stated otherwise. The LEXIT Token (LXT) is not intended to constitute:
1. securities in any jurisdiction,
2. currency of any kind,
3. stocks, shares or debentures,
4. units in a collective investment scheme or business trust,
5. equity in an investment fund.  Any regulation or legislation applicable to securities or to any of (1 to 5) above will
not be applicable to this Whitepaper and the LXT ITO.

This Whitepaper does not
constitute a prospectus or oﬀer document, nor is it an oﬀer of securities or an at- tempted solicitation for investment in securities in any jurisdiction. This Whitepaper
and the LXT ITO have not been approved by any regulatory body in any jurisdiction. It should not be assumed that the Whitepaper and the LXT Token Oﬀering comply
with any laws, regulation or legislation of any jurisdiction.  The purchase of the LXT and participation in the LXT token oﬀering is inherently
risky. No warranty, guarantee or undertaking is made by LEXIT and/or the distrib-
utors of the LXT regarding:
1. the performance of the LXT,
2. the performance of the assets underlying the LEXIT business or the LXT token
purchase,
3. the accuracy of the information contained in this Whitepaper,
4. the accuracy of the ﬁnancial or other projections contained in this Whitepaper.
2
The law and regulation of token oﬀerings is in the process of development and re-
view in most jurisdictions. This lack of clarity surrounding the law and regulation
further increases the risk associated with the LXT purchase.

As a potential pur-
chaser, it is assumed that you have familiarized yourself with the underlying tech-
nology and workings of token purchases, blockchain technology, digital wallets and
cryptocurrency. It is assumed that, as a potential purchaser, you have knowledge
and understanding of the foregoing and that you have familiarized yourself with
the risks associated therewith. Any agreement between you and LEXIT and/or any distributor, in relation to the
sale and purchase of the LXT will be governed by a separate Token Sale Agreement
setting out the terms and conditions of such agreement. In the event of any in-
consistencies between the Token Sale Agreement and this Whitepaper, the Token
Sale Agreement shall prevail. To the maximum extent permitted by the applicable
laws, regulations and rules, LEXIT and/or any distributor shall not be liable for any
indirect, special, incidental, consequential or other losses of any kind, in tort, con-
tract or otherwise (including but not limited to loss of revenue, income, personal
savings or proﬁts, and loss of use or data), arising out of or in connection with any

acceptance of or reliance on this Whitepaper or any part thereof by you and any
purchase of the LXT tokens by you .  As a potential purchaser of the LXT you agree and acknowledge that:
1. You are recognized as an Accredited/Sophisticated/High Net Worth Individu-
al/Investor in your home jurisdiction.
2. The purchase of LXT is inherently risky.  3. The law and regulation in relation to token oﬀerings, cryptocurrency, digital
wallets and  blockchain is in the process of being developed and reviewed in
most jurisdictions.  4. LEXIT and/or any distributor give no representations, warranties or undertak-
ings regarding the success of the LXT token oﬀering, the underlying LEXIT busi-
ness, the accuracy of the information and accuracy of the ﬁnancial and other
projections contained in this Whitepaper.
5.

To the full extent permitted by the applicable laws, regulations and rules, LEXIT
and/or any distributor shall not be liable for any indirect, special, incidental,
consequential or other losses of any kind, in tort, contract or otherwise (in-
cluding but not limited to loss of revenue, income, personal savings or proﬁts,
and loss of use or data), arising out of or in connection with any acceptance of
or reliance on this Whitepaper or any part thereof by you and any purchase
of the LXT tokens by you. LEXIT is committed to providing a safe, compliant and reputable service to our cus-
tomers. For this reason, LEXIT insists on a comprehensive and thorough Know Your
3
Customer (KYC) and anti-money laundering (AML) / combating the ﬁnance of terror-
ism (CFT) compliance implementation. This includes the monitoring of suspicious
transactions and obligatory reporting to local regulators and other compliance bod-
ies. Our policies in this regard diﬀer depending on the country of origin of which
our clients are located. The speciﬁc AML/CFT and KYC policies as per regional juris-
diction are located in the terms and conditions of the Token Sale Agreement.

Our
compliance framework ensures that regulatory requirements are being adhered
to at both a local and global level, instilling a level of trust and ensuring LEXIT will
continue operate uninterrupted. LEXIT reserves the right to refuse to oﬀer LXT to
persons from or in jurisdictions that do not meet international AML/CFT standards
or could be considered as a Politically Exposed Person.
Executive Summary Mergers and Acquisitions (M&A) is a complicated ﬁeld.  With millions of businesses
forming and disintegrating annually, buyers and sellers have a hard time ﬁnding
each other and negotiating fairly. Involving batteries of corporate lawyers, invest-
ment bankers, ﬁnancial advisors and appraisers, the selling of a company or its
assets entails very high costs, even before the ﬁrst potential buyer is contacted. These enormous barriers to entry have until now prevented the emergence of on-
line M&A marketplaces, akin to those existing for other kinds of property. LEXIT aims to become the ﬁrst such marketplace. Utilizing a platform approach, blockchain
technologies, and an international network of business partners, LEXIT aims to in-
crease the eﬃciency and liquidity of the corporate asset market in the same way
eBay did for peer-to-peer commerce and Airbnb did for short-term renting. 

To achieve this aim, LEXIT combines blockchain-based token economics and best
practices developed by the platform-marketplace industry. Both are heavily reliant
on the Law of Big Numbers: the larger the pool of buyers and sellers, the more
reliable price discovery is and the faster optimal, win-win deals can be achieved.  On LEXIT’s marketplace, buyers and sellers meet directly en masse allowing market
forces and network dynamics to render corporate assets such as patents, trade-
marks, technology, specialized departments and entire companies into highly liquid
assets that can be traded at ease, rented and licensed. We are convinced and able
to demonstrate that this increased liquidity and market-eﬃciency will prove itself
highly beneﬁcial in terms of promoting innovation and supporting growth, while
reducing overhead costs and risk.  As demonstrated further in this Whitepaper, the LEXIT Solution allows for M&A
processes to be concluded faster and at about a quarter of traditional costs. En-
trepreneurs are empowered to discover the true value of their assets on a vibrant
4
and highly liquid marketplace, without having to bear excessive fees.

And most im-
portantly - for the ﬁrst time - an eﬃcient market for IP and patents is established,
allowing companies to trade IP assets as conveniently as one would buy, sell or rent
a car or real estate. 1 Introduction Mergers and Acquisitions comprise a massive and global industry. For example,
company growth may be only possible by taking over competitors. Other motives
for M&A activity are outsourcing research and development by buying highly spe-
cialized companies. Some commercial actors buy companies just to sell them at a
higher price in the future.  Besides companies, the M&A market also includes intellectual property like patents,
licenses, trademarks and source code (open and closed source code). If a company becomes insolvent and is liquidated, it is not unusual to split it oﬀand
sell the valuable components independently. In general, the M&A market ranges from small companies of only local importance,
to innovative start-ups with potential buyers from all over the world and large cor-
porate transactions with established companies that involve billions of dollars.

While the large-scale M&A market is only accessible to buyers with necessary funds,
thus narrowing down the number of possible acquisition targets, the situation is
completely diﬀerent in the mid-range M&A space which had a total volume of US
$3.63 trillion with 49’078 transactions in 20164.  In spite of its importance, this market is far from being perfect. Signiﬁcant prob-
lems include price discovery, valuation of assets (especially patents), exposure of
assets and availability of trustworthy and competent experts. As a result, parties
producing or owning intellectual property may be unable to sell or otherwise realise
its worth, leading to a waste of the resources initially appropriated to the develop-
ment and production of the item.  This Whitepaper argues that the Coasian transaction costs involved in searching for
potential buyers (seller’s perspective) or ﬁnding patents, technology, soft assets and
company branches (buyer’s perspective) can be reduced by applying a platform ap-
proach. In the following sections of this Whitepaper, challenges, opportunities, po-
tential for innovation and an approach for technical realization will be explored.  4Bothwick , J., Leibowitz, H., Cutler, W. Hale, P., and Dorr LLP (2017, 1.6). 2017 M&A Report.

Retrieved
from https://corpgov.law.harvard.edu/2017/06/01/2017-ma-report/
5
2 Industry Overview
Today, controlling knowledge and technology is strategically more important than
controlling resources and hence frictionless technology and knowledge transfer is
required for companies to develop their businesses. Patents are a reiﬁcation of
intellectual property making such property tradeable and transferable on IP mar-
kets. It is often easier to obtain a license, a patent or source code from outside the
company than performing research and development inside the company
The objective of patent systems is to protect invention by granting the inventor
remedies for enforcing the patent. Ideally, this increased legal security encourages
the inventor to license other market participants who are interested in using the
patented knowledge or technology. This way the inventor has an incentive to share
his ﬁndings, based upon which others can innovate further. Nevertheless, there is an asymmetry between small companies (SMEs) and individ-
ual inventors and large corporations as regards the legal expertise and ﬁnancial
resources that are needed to enforce patents. Another issue with the IP market is the interplay between eﬃciency, transparency
and liquidity:  • Eﬃciency: describes the IP market’s ability to ﬁnd prices that reﬂect the value
of an IP item.

Imprecise patents make it hard to estimate their value.  • Transparency: the market becomes more transparent the more market par-
ticipants’ individual views of the market overlap and intersect. Market partic-
ipants are discouraged from economic activity if prices for like IP items vary
too much.  • Liquidity: the easier it is to transfer an IP item, the more liquid it is. Liquidity
of an IP item is hindered if its value cannot be determined and if it is unknown
which prices were paid for similar items (transparency).
Another characteristic of today’s IP markets is the presence of IP service providers,
e.g., Non Practicing Entities. These entities are supposed to act as middlemen in the
market. Nevertheless, low quality work by these entities discourages companies
from outsourcing IP services which in turn retards market activity. 2.1 Unused IP At present, large amounts of IP remain unused. SMEs, individual inventors and uni-
versities often lack the culture, legal expertise and ﬁnancial resources to engage
in the IP market. In a market which is non-transparent regarding IP and IP service
6
prices, these actors prefer to focus on research and development of their technolo-
gies.

They also prefer to avoid the risk of litigation since large corporations are often
in a monopoly position with their extended legal expertise and ﬁnancial resources. Since large parts of IP are held by smaller IP market participants, resources are
wasted when IP items from this group remain unused—not to mention the missing
positive eﬀect on society in general.  Another reason why IP remains unused is an ineﬃcient IP market that fails to bring
awareness of appropriate IP to market participants who need it. Even if appropriate
IP can be found, it is often the case that the IP owner cannot be located. 2.2 Challenges of IP Valuation Valuation of IP is a challenging task. It includes estimating its future relevance in
general and eﬃciency gains in particular. A patent describing a very eﬃcient tech-
nology that was open sourced has reduced value as has a patent that correctly
predicts a trend in a certain ﬁeld but fails to provide applicable innovation.  Ideally, patents describe worthwhile innovation. Nevertheless, it is not uncommon
that patents are applied for, which lack innovation and quality in description. Both
cases require expertise on patents in general and on the technology described in
particular.

An equally severe problem comprises patents that meet formal require-
ments for issuance but lack precise technical description of the patented technol-
ogy. This leads to non-reproducibility of the described technology, making it impos-
sible to assess its value.  2.3 Localized Experience
A problem with considerable negative eﬀects in midrange M&A is the lack of expe-
rience and knowledge of sellers. Often, these persons are not aware of the value of
their research results. Another issue is an understanding of how the M&A process
usually works and how steps are sequenced: trust is established step-by-step and
conﬁdential information is not disclosed at the beginning. This is also related to
legal aspects that govern the process. Sometimes slight variations in wording can
make a considerable semantic diﬀerence with equally drastic outcomes. The chal-
lenge here is to provide sellers with experts to help them discover the true value of
their assets and to guide them through the process of selling so that they do not
end up in an adverse situation.  7
3 Industry Gaps and LEXIT Opportunities

In this section, we illustrate the IP market’s lack of eﬃciency, transparency and liq-
uidity by discussing more concrete issues and pointing out the opportunities that
arise from them. • Low patent quality: imprecise technology descriptions in patents and non-
reproducibility of the described technology create ﬁnancial and legal risks for
SMEs and individual inventors. This creates an opportunity for connecting
them to experts who possess the knowledge for accurately assessing the patent.  • Finding the most suitable IP: for a company requiring IP it is hard to ﬁnd that
which helps it best to achieve its business goals. The same applies to IP owners
who cannot ﬁnd enough potential buyers which in turn reduces the probability
of selling at the highest price. Solving this issue requires a system with low
entry barriers where sellers and potential buyers are exposed to each other. This system should also facilitate advanced ﬁlter and search mechanisms so
that potential buyers can actually ﬁnd the most suitable IP, in case it exists.
• No monitoring of IP ownership: even if a company can ﬁnd suitable patents
does not mean that it can be transferred.

Since there is no obligation to track
ownership, the potential buyer might not be able to locate the current owner. This creates a situation adverse for the patent owner, who misses an opportu-
nity for revenue, and equally for the potential buyer, whose business growth
is impaired.  • Finding expertise: ﬁnding experts for evaluating patents is not the only step
where expertise is required. Transferring IP also includes negotiation and
drafting a purchase agreement or contract. This requires legal expertise ac-
cording to the jurisdiction that applies for the IP item transferred. The oppor-
tunity here is to create a system where experts can build a tamper-proof track
record that fosters trust among IP market participants.  • Reluctance to disclose IP ownership: not knowing the owner of an IP item
prevents others to invent on top of it. On the other hand, disclosing ownership
creates an opportunity for revenue by licensing IP users. • Liquidation after insolvency: selling a whole company after it became insol-
vent requires a buyer who can make use of all of the company’s assets. Nev-
ertheless, it is far more common to split the company into parts which are
sold separately.  8 4

LEXIT’s Process Innovation  The aforementioned issues are all symptoms of an imperfect market. By applying
a platform approach, LEXIT seeks to improve the process steps that are connected
to these issues. 4.1 Deﬁning Platforms A platform consists of producers, consumers, providers and the platform owner.  Producers create value items that consumers require and are willing to reimburse
for—in money and tokens but also attention and up votes. Providers are the in-
terfaces that allow for accessing the platform—usually network capable electronic
devices. The owner is the entity that is in control of the platform’s IP.  Example: the android system with its Smartphone apps and App Store. App devel-
opers produce apps, that are consumed by Smartphone users. The Smartphone is
the interface to the platform that provides the user with means necessary for in-
teracting with the platform. Which apps get listed in the App Store, its design and
the android operating system are controlled by the platform owner—in this case,
Google. The value items are apps that are exchanged in the platform’s core inter-
action between producer and consumer (downloading the app from the appstore
to the Smartphone). 

Compared to local and personal networks with limited reach, platforms can connect
users from virtually any location. The platform’s value stems from value creating
interactions between its users. Although important as a facilitator, technologies
like Smartphones or the internet are not the focal point of platforms. Android’s
app store is valuable to its user not because of its underlying code but because of
the apps that are oﬀered on it. The more users the platform has, the bigger the
incentive for developers to produce apps. The richer the app store, the larger the
probability for an individual user to ﬁnd an app to meets his requirements. This self-
amplifying feedback phenomenon is known as network eﬀects. Creating a platform
always contains a paradox the platform owners need to solve. If no consumers
(android users) exist, producers (app developers) have no incentive to create value
items (apps). On the other hand, if a platform has no value items to oﬀer, users will
see no value in becoming consumers of the platform.  This paradox can be solved by bootstrapping the platform with producers that are
subsidized with funding raised by the platform owner.
9
4.2

A Platform for IP and M&A
LEXIT will create a platform facilitating M&A and IP transactions. Industry experts
and market participants will be able to assume various roles in value creating in-
teractions. The primary goal of this platform is to pool actors with only local reach
in order to drastically increase the number of possible interaction partners. In this
way, for example, a patent sales opportunity is not only seen by three potential
buyers but three thousand. The platform approach fulﬁls two functions:  • Marketplace: The platform will be a marketplace where IP, company branches
and startups can be sold. A sophisticated search mechanism will help buyers
to ﬁlter out appropriate items from a wide range of diﬀerent items. • Ecosystem: In order to make the marketplace functional , the platform will cre-
ate incentives for experts to come to the platform. They are required for eval-
uating IP and companies oﬀered on the marketplace and to provide legal as-
sistance for preparing and committing M&A or IP transactions.  4.2.1 Roles and Actors on the LEXIT Platform
A platform user is not restricted to a single role.

On the android platform, it is very
likely that app developers use apps for checking repositories and getting in touch
with other developers and the community using their app. In the same way, an app
user can come to the conclusion that no app exists oﬀering a certain functionality,
motivating this user to develop it himself. As in the example of the android platform,
users of the LEXIT platform are not restricted to a single role. The following roles
are anticipated to occur on the platform:  • Sellers: are users who own a company or IP and want to sell it—these could be
companies with a rich patent portfolio as well as professors managing the IP
of their research institute. This role includes providing suﬃcient information
for the items they want to get listed on the platform but also interaction with
buyers and assessors to help estimate the value of the item they oﬀer.
• Buyers : these users are companies looking for IP, assets or startups in order to
grow their businesses. They request information from sellers of items listed
on the platform in order to make more informed decisions.

• Assessors: are experts that provide sellers and buyers with expertise equally.  Highly specialized experts from a speciﬁc ﬁeld like crystal growth can help de-
termining the value of patents (e.g. by verifying the reproducibility of the tech-
nology described). Accountants can help perform due diligence by looking at
the books of companies to be sold. Lawyers can assist with drafting purchase
10
agreements and adhering to legal requirements in speciﬁc jurisdictions, and
ensure the legal transfer of title.
4.2.2 Value Creating Interactions The most valuable asset of every platform is the community of users connected by
and interacting through the platform. Nevertheless, a large number of users is in
itself not suﬃcient for a platform to create value for its users—it is value creating
interactions, facilitated by the platform’s tools and rules that create value. Inter-
actions create value if they make the steps of existing, well-established processes
more eﬃcient, more secure, less costly or reduce friction.  Example: a platform like Moodle for scheduling meetings reduces the friction of
conventional communication via phone or email.

Instead of keeping track of who is
available at which date by going through countless emails, all information is stored
and updated in one place—all potential participants have a shared view of the over-
all process state. It is also the value creating transactions that stimulate the growth of a platforms
user base and not merely the number of already registered users. Consider the
case where an old-timer car addict needs to source a very speciﬁc spare part. On a
small platform, it is unlikely, that a user will exist who can oﬀer this part. On a plat-
form with a large community, spare parts of old-timer cars might not be interesting
for the majority of platform users. Nevertheless, the large user base increases the
probability that someone oﬀers this very speciﬁc spare part. The platform’s abil-
ity to successfully facilitate this transaction gives rise to subsequent interactions
where unique items are oﬀered and bought. This creates a feedback loop which
keeps the platform and its community active.

This self-amplifying phenomenon is
called network eﬀects.
4.3 The Conventional Process of Selling IP and Companies
An M&A transaction is a process where intellectual property, assets, a company or
a company branch is transferred from the owner—the seller—to a buyer.  The conventional process encompasses the following steps:
1. The seller uses contacts and networks to ﬁnd potential buyers or contracts a
law ﬁrm for this task.  2. Potential buyers place buy oﬀers.  3. Eventually one of the oﬀers is chosen by the seller.  11 4. Both parties sign non-disclosure agreement, go through due diligence and
draft a purchase agreement.  5. After the transaction details are negotiated, the purchase agreement is signed
and the transaction committed.
Example: after the insolvency of a company, its patents are to be sold. First, the
liquidator seeks to ﬁnd potential buyers, e.g. a law ﬁrm. The lawyers will use their
contacts and network to ﬁnd buyers. In order to evaluate the oﬀered patents, a
potential buyer needs to ﬁnd experts who can verify the patent’s claims and the
prospective economic value for the buyer. 4.4 The Process of Selling IP and Companies on the LEXIT Platform

The process on the LEXIT platform consists of the same steps in the same sequence
as described above—yet there is a diﬀerence in how the steps are executed.  1. The seller uses the platform’s web interface to create a listing of the asset
he looks to sell which is published on the platform after a basic check by the
platform owner (LEXIT).  2. Potential buyers can use the web interface to search for the assets, IP or com-
pany branches they need for the development and growth of their business.  3. The seller sees several buy oﬀers and can check a potential buyer’s history on
the platform.  4. The web interface guides both parties through the necessary steps for closing
the deal. Each of them can use the platform to ﬁnd experts they need to sup-
port them during the whole process, including due diligence and estimation
of value of the asset to be transferred.  5. Closing the deal on the platform will create data entries that help building a
track record for each party involved including the experts.  Observe that a platform is used for listing and searching for items instead of private
networks or those of M&A ﬁrms.

Another aspect is the track record that is built by
each assessor/expert whose expertise is used. In this way, trust can be established
between users who have not yet interacted with each other before.  By employing a platform approach, aforementioned industry gaps and market inef-
ﬁciencies can be remedied. As a result, friction and costs are considerably reduced
for the end user, while the circle of potential participants in the global M&A market
is widened to include buyers and sellers that were until now excluded due to high
barriers to entry.  12
AVERAGE M&A  TRANSACTION COST
PROCESS DURATION
PRICE ESTIMATION PROCESS
SELLING INDIVIDUAL ASSETS (IP, 
PATENTS, CODE, PROTOTYPES, ETC)
RETAINER FEE
BARRIERS TO ENTRY
FINDING A BUYER
SUCCESS FEE
UNSUCCESSFUL TRANSACTION FEE
LICENSING TECHNOLOGY INSTEAD OF 
SELLING IP RIGHTS
CRYPTO PAYMENTS
TRANSACTION PROGRESS TRACKING
PROCESS FACILITATION
TRADITIONAL M&A
UP TO 12% + FEES
HIGH PRE-PAYMENTS

UP TO 2 YEARS
(DEPENDS ON THE TRANSACTION)
MANUAL, OFFLINE 
HEADHUNTING
OFFLINE, MANUAL
COMPLICATED, UNFAMILIAR,
LOTS OF ROOM FOR MISTAKES
UP TO 2-8%
LOW, REASONABLE LISTING FEE
GLOBAL ONLINE EXPOSURE &
LEXIT’S MATCHMAKING NETWORK
ONLINE, AUTOMATED
STEP BY STEP GUIDANCE, 
USER ORIENTED, FOOLPROOF UX/UI
TIME-CONSUMING, MANUAL 
MARKET RESEARCH  AND APPRAISEMENT
INSTANT NETWORK & AUCTION 
BASED PRICE DISCOVERY
UP TO 6 MONTHS
(DEPENDS ON THE TRANSACTION)
5 The LEXIT Solution  In this section we discuss the marketplace and its search mechanism as well as
rating mechanism for assessor and describe the platform’s workﬂow.
5.1 Marketplace Aspect
Creating a marketplace for IP, soft assets and M&A in order to increase exposure
and reach is not suﬃcient to improve market eﬃciency. It would merely result in
an increase in “noise” where it is very diﬃcult to ﬁnd appropriate items. Therefore,
the search mechanism is a vital component of the platform. Besides making listings accessible to conventional search techniques by indexing,
LEXIT will establish a system based on weighted tags. Tags are common keywords
describing key features of the listing. For example:
13
• A startup producing wooden keyboards with tags like, Mahogany, USB or ex-
ternal device.

A wood processing company might be interested in acquiring a
branch that produces saleable goods. • A patent for an electric car engine. Besides electric car, electric car engine or
compatible battery technologies, the geographic location can be a tag as well. In this way, electrical engineering companies in the same location could ﬁnd
this patent and decide to get licensed in order to produce these engines, cre-
ate a supply chain or initiate a local research partnership (which implies access
to the technology described in the patent).
• For a bioengineering technique, Polymerase Chain Reaction or thermocycler could
be tags, but also the year of discovery, involved researchers or the name of a
ﬁeld where it is applied. Tags can be up- and down-voted by users in order to reduce “noise” and obtain a clear signal—which becomes more important, the larger the platform becomes . Instead of LEXIT predetermining categories, the wisdom of the crowd is employed. These weighted tags can also be used to discover trends in the platform and provide
visualizations by applying cluster algorithms. 5.2 Governance One of the crucial parts of every platform is governance.

This is required to curate
users and listings in order to avoid interactions that create low quality value items
on the platform and users being driven out by unsatisfactory search results.
Part of the role of assessors is to provide assessments for new listings. Their com-
pensation will depend on who appointed them and the accuracy of their assess-
ment. A seller who is convinced of the value of his IP could pay an assessor with a proven
track record up front in order to increase credibility of his oﬀer. Vice versa, an
assessor can ask the seller of a new item to use him as an expert. A third way is
that buyers ask experts to help with due diligence before they place a bid.  The utilization of experts to maintain quality by independent assessment of listings
leads to the question of rating assessors. Expertise is only useful if users can trust
the expert’s track record.  5.2.1 Rating Based on Auction Estimates
There are three data points that can be used to rate the quality of an assessment:
the seller’s estimate, the assessor’s estimate and the exit value (actual price paid on
14
the platform).

The more accurate the assessor’s estimate, the higher the quality of
his assessment. Example:
• Low estimate by seller, high estimate by assessor, even higher exit value. The
assessor helped the seller to discover the true value of his assets, IP or com-
pany and sell at a higher price. • High estimate by seller, low estimate by assessor, exit value of zero (i.e. no
buy oﬀers). The assessors made the non-existent value explicit, thus reducing
noise on the platform and maintaining overall quality of listings. Conversely, inaccurate estimates by assessors will become part of their track record
as well.
5.2.2 Ratings Based on Individual Token Payments
In the context of an auction, there is a second rating mechanism which is the paying
of an assessor in LXT for his valuable insights at any stage of the auction process. Since the marketplace depends on accurate information, providing such informa-
tion should be incentivized regardless of the outcome of the auction. This is espe-
cially true in cases where assessors save potential buyers from wasting money or,
alternatively, help a seller to exit at a much higher price. 

An LXT payment is a more profound sign of appreciation than a ﬁve-star rating since
it amounts to true monetary value spent by a seller or buyer. Because of the mon-
etary value (LXT) being used, the use of LXT can also be perceived as a spam pro-
tection fee for avoiding inﬂationary use of ﬁve star or 100% ratings. Five-star or
100% ratings become more and more meaningless as an information source for
rating assessors the more inﬂationary they are used, making it harder identifying
an assessor’s unique skills.  5.2.3 Data Points Usable for Track Records
Experts ﬁlling the assessor role have diﬀerent strengths and approaches. By look-
ing at the track record, users can ﬁnd the experts on the platform that are most
suitable.

Assessors can be rated based on the following information:
• seller’s approval/disapproval with provided evaluation of his auction,
• number of assessments,
• diﬀerence between a startup’s value estimated by its seller, the assessor’s
evaluation and the actual exit value,
• number and volume of closed deals,
15
• business area and geographic location of assessed auctions.
LEXIT’s focus is not on drawing conclusions from this information but rather on
making it accessible to the community and participants who use their own judge-
ment. A potential buyer might need an assessor who has a track record of success-
fully handling high volume deals. Or consider a case where a startup discovered a more robust method for growing crystals . For evaluating its true value, a potential
buyer could decide to appoint an assessor who just graduated in crystal growth.  Because of the lack of a long track record, the potential buyer doesn’t have to pay a
high compensation but the inexperienced assessor gets a chance to demonstrate
his knowledge and get rewarded for it. He may be the only expert in the ﬁeld —
choosing him is eventually the only way for the potential buyer to take the business
opportunity.

5.3 Dealﬂow
SELLERS
(KYC)
BUYERS (KYC)
SERVICES
SERVICES
LIST YOUR
PROJECT
BROWSE
MARKETPLACE
COLLECT
OFFERS
PLACE
OFFERS
EVALUATE
ASSESSORS
(KYC)
GET
VERIFIED
NDA
NDA
TRANSFERS
LEXIT ESCROW
SERVICES
SERVICES
SERVICES
SERVICES
DUE DILIGENCE & 
NEGOTIATION
VIRTUAL DEAL ROOM
DONE DEAL
AUDIT
(KYC)
LEGAL
SUPPORT
(KYC)
AUDIT
(KYC)
LEGAL
SUPPORT
(KYC)
AUCTION
ENDS
Figure 1: Transaction ﬂow from start to done deal.
Before business activity ensues, buyers and seller have to pass the KYC process. Their identity is not revealed to other platform users while care is taken by LEXIT to
prevent malicious actors from entering the community. The deal ﬂow consists of two consecutive phases.  1. In the marketplace phase, sellers create listings, assessors verify listings and
buyers place bids on listings and eventually request support from assessors. A seller makes the ﬁnal decision which buy oﬀer to accept. 16
2. When a buy oﬀer from a potential buyer is chosen by a seller, the dealroom
phase follows. Both parties sign non disclosure agreements and exchange
documents required for due diligence. Experts can be onboarded to assist
with due diligence, audits, in-depth evaluation and negotiating contract terms.

Agreed upon contract terms are ﬁxed in a purchase agreement which is signed
at the end of the deal ﬂow. 6 The LEXIT Token—Why Tokenization? Since the LEXIT marketplace is heavily dependent on network features such as list-
ing fees, anti-spam payments, monetarily-backed ratings, and revenue-sharing among
network participants, the introduction of an internal, cryptographic vehicle of value
is essential. Additionally, features such as payment-escrow, rapid settlements, and the facili-
tation of trust among parties in diﬀerent jurisdictions, require the employment of
smart contract technology in order to accommodate for the high transaction vol-
ume anticipated.
6.1 Introducing a Native Token  The reason for launching a native token is to avoid ﬂuctuation in price and tech-
nology with established cryptocurrencies. Since LXT is used as quantitative rating
method for assessors and as a commission for deals, high ﬂuctuation would de-
crease the transparency of the platform. Consider, for example, two transactions
with the same volume in USD that follow each other brieﬂy but with a considerable
LXT price diﬀerence. For new users of the platform, the impression could arise that
both transactions had diﬀerent volumes. 6.2 Token Utility The LXT token powers the LEXIT platform and its services.

LXT will be charged for:
• Rating users and their work, e.g., assessors and their evaluation of IP, soft
assets or companies.
• Pay experts in LXT if they did exceptional good work—this is a display of trust
and quality that makes it easier for platform users to ﬁnd good experts. It can
also be interpreted as a spam protection fee to avoid inﬂationary use of ﬁve
star or 100% ratings. 17 • Categorization of listed items: to prevent tag vandalism, a small amount of
LXT will be charged. Users who applied helpful and accurate tags can receive
LXT based on the number of up votes of their tags.
• Paying the commission to LEXIT upon successful completion of a transaction.
6.3 Token Flow
SELLERS
(KYC)
BUYERS
(KYC)
LXT
LXT
LXT
LXT
LXT
LXT
LXT
LXT
LXT
SERVICES
SERVICES
LIST YOUR
PROJECT
PREMIUM
FEATURES
PREMIUM
FEATURES
BROWSE
MARKETPLACE
EVALUATE
ASSESSORS
(KYC)
GET
VERIFIED
ASSESSORS
(KYC)
COMMUNITY
WALLET
Figure 2: LXT within the LEXIT system.
When creating a new listing a fee is charged by LEXIT in LXT which is collected in
LEXIT’s community wallet.

Premium features, e.g. increasing visibility of the own
listing or getting early access to new listings, are charged for the same way. During
the launch phase of the platform, evaluation will be subsidized by LEXIT: experts are
attracted by the opportunity to be recompensed for their special knowledge, sellers  beneﬁt from getting evaluations of their listings faster and cheaper and potential
buyers see a more transparent market since listings are evaluated by experts.
18
6.4 Distribution
Allocation of raised funds:
• 50% token sale
• 15% rewards pool
• 5% advisors
• 10% partners
• 10% company
• 10% founders
7 Technical Approach
The implementation of the LEXIT platform will incorporate established technology
like databases, web development frameworks and Smartphone apps but also up-
coming technology like blockchains with smart contracting capabilities. Although
using diﬀerent technology, they are intended to achieve a common goal: help to
establish trust among interacting parties throughout all layers of the platform. On
the one hand, the platform helps to neutralize the fact that users sit in diﬀerent loca-
tions by extending the reach of information. On the other hand, trust and credibility
must be maintained.

LEXIT PLATFORM
SMART CONTRACT 
ENABLED BLOCKCHAIN
SMART CONTRACT
• RECORD EVALUATIONS
• RECORD BETS
WEB SERVICE
(WEBSITE, APP)
LISTINGS /
AUCTIONS
DEAL FLOW
DEAL ROOM
(PROCESS AWARE DATAROOM)
PROVIDE ACCESS/DOCUMENTS
SMART CONTRACT
• TRACE NEGOTIATION 
PROCESS
• RECORD COMPLETION 
OF TRANSACTION
SELLER
S
SELLER
ASSESSOR
EXPERT
SELLER
S
POTENTIAL
BUYERS
BUYER/
SELLER
• 
CREATE LISTINGS
• 
ACCEPT/ REJECT BUY OFFERS
• 
PRIVIDE INFORMATION
• 
VERIFY & EVALUATE LISTINGS
• 
SPECIAL KNOWLEDGE
• 
LEGAL EXPERTISE
•
EXCHANGE INFORMATION
•
DRAFT PURCHASE AGREEMENT
•
COMMIT TRANSACTION
•
BROWSE MARKETPLACE
•
PLACE BUY OFFERS
•
REQUEST INFORMATION
Figure 3: LEXIT platform schematics.
19 Users assuming various roles can interact through a webservice that acts as front
end for the platform and will use common technology like webservers, databases
and web development frameworks.  Buyers can browse the marketplace and place bids, sellers can create listings and
manage buy oﬀers—this requires a repository of currently active listings but also
a sophisticated search engine that not only ﬁnds items that are appropriate but
also all of them; that is, not leaving appropriate items out. This requires database
servers including query languages and also code containing the logic for creating
accurate database query requests.

Besides making information accessible and usable to the platform users, it must
be suﬃciently secured. Since the deal room will hold conﬁdential documents con-
taining trade secrets, robust and stable frameworks need to be used, as well as
software development techniques aiming at risk reduction and application of se-
curity patterns. To achieve market transparency, placed bids, value estimates and
transaction volumes will be recorded tamper proof on a smart contracts enabled
blockchain. This way, platform users participating in the market can build a rep-
utation and track record that can be trusted. The use of smart contracts allows
for an architecture with better coherence and consistency between the blockchain
component, the webservice and the business logic.  8 Partnerships
LEXIT’s value proposition as a platform marketplace is heavily reliant on the es-
tablishment of massive network dynamics. The larger the pool of buyers and sell-
ers, the more reliable price discovery is, the faster high-quality, mutually-beneﬁcial
deals can be achieved.  As discussed in section 4.1 Deﬁning Platforms, this state of aﬀairs leads naturally
towards the so called Platform Paradox. If a platform is underpopulated in terms
of one of its value-creating agents (buyers, sellers, assessors)

, other players have
diminished incentives and capacities to create value, leading to a negative feedback
loop and suboptimal network growth. To remedy this situation, LEXIT introduces an international network of partners with
both the aptitude as well as the incentive to massively onboard value-creating par-
ticipants to the LEXIT platform. The LEXIT Global Partner Program  LEXIT’s Global Partners (GPs) are highly connected players in the IT/High-Tech in-
dustry, such as VC funds, Technology Hubs, and Accelerators. LEXIT GPs utilize their
20
vast networks and in-depth knowledge of the industry to on-board potential buyers,
sellers, and assessors to the LEXIT platform.  
To widen the scope of this operation, LEXIT GPs can recruit Sub-Partners, perme-
ating the depths of global industry-connections even further. While LEXIT GPs are
institutional players, screened and contracted with LEXIT, Sub-Partners are smaller
entities or individuals in trust relationships with their appointing GP. Incentives
LEXIT GPs and Sub-Partners are incentivized to participate in the LEXIT network by
direct incentives provided by LEXIT’s compensation plans, as well as by indirect in-
centives resulting from their own business-related interests.  LEXIT designates 50% of its commission revenue to GPs involved in transactions
creating said revenue.

Where a Sub-Partner was involved in facilitating a successful
transaction, they will receive 25% of LEXIT’s net commission revenue of the respec-
tive transaction, while the GP aﬃliated with the Sub Partner receives an additional
5%. Secondary Motivations  The aforementioned compensation plan poses an estimated incentive of several
hundred-thousand USD per facilitated deal, resulting in a potential annual revenue
of millions of USD for GPs. Beside this direct monetary incentive, the inherent busi-
ness interests of agents acting as GPs provide additional, secondary motivations to
list buyers, sellers, as well as assessors on the LEXIT platform.  Venture Capital Firms, Accelerators, and Technology Hubs, have a vested interest
to promote fast and cost-eﬃcient trade of corporate assets of companies aﬃliated
with them. According to GEM estimates5, 96% of attempted incorporations fail dur-
ing their ﬁrst two years. This ﬁgure also reﬂects the fail rate of startups comprising
the portfolio of VCs and other potential LEXIT GPs.  In becoming a GP, Venture Capital Firms, Accelerators, and Technology Hubs can
expedite the liquidation of companies they are invested in or aﬃliated with, while
minimizing losses and eventually creating a revenue stream.

VCs, Accelerators, and
Angel-Investors may also direct their creations towards LEXIT to acquire needed
technology or IP, while beneﬁting directly as well as indirectly from the resulting
transaction. 5http://www.gemconsortium.org/report
21 9 A Glimpse Into LEXIT’s Future Given the general increase in cost-eﬃciency discussed throughout this paper, it can
be postulated that the growth of LEXIT’s market share is essentially not limited by
foreseeable market dynamics. Building on this assumption, LEXIT strives to posi-
tion itself as the default venue for the trade of corporate assets across all industries
and business scales. With the growth of LEXIT’s transaction volume, the LEXIT platform will be further
developed to accommodate the needs of a growing user base with diverse interests
and behaviors. Third Party API
LEXIT will provide a third-party API (Application Program Interface) to allow direct
listings onto LEXIT by General Partners, Sub Partners and other external specialized
actors and marketplaces, without having to use the LEXIT web-interface. These ex-
ternal entities will beneﬁt from LEXIT’s global reach, while LEXIT in return increases
its  transaction volume and reach even further. LEXIT Market Predictive Artiﬁcial Intelligence (MPAi) 

By facilitating large numbers of business interactions and processing the respective
metadata, LEXIT ﬁnds itself in the privileged position of possessing exclusive access
to valuable, deidentiﬁed Big Data. This information, in combination with various additional sources such as stock ex-
changes, patent oﬃces, scientiﬁc, business and social media, LEXIT’s MPAi will be
able to deduce trends and other insights from given market behaviors. These in-
sights can then be utilized to inform the decisions of LEXIT users, or be sold on-
demand to third parties.  22
10 Roadmap
KYC ID VERIFICATION
LEXIT CRYPTO ESCROW SERVICE
CRYPRO PAYMENTS
LEXIT WALLET
LEGAL SERVICES POWERED BY AI
ENCRYPTED DEAL ROOM
ANTI-FRAUD DEPARTMENT
2018
Q1
Q2
LEXIT
PLATFORM
PUBLIC
LAUNCH
EUROPE & RUSSIA
TIMELINE
LOCALIZATION
LEXIT PREMIUM MODEL
IOS APP
ANDROID APP
2018
Q3
Q4
USA & ASIA
3RD PARTY API
LICENSING FEATURE
SAAS FEATURE
LEGAL DEPARTMENT
2019
Q1
Q2
AUSTRALIA & LATIN AMERICA
DATA MINING & AI SECTOR
R&D DEPARTMENT
(ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT)
2019
Q4
AFRICA
Q3
AUDIT/LEGAL SUPPORT, ASSESSOR NETWORK AND PARTNER PROGRAMM GLOBAL EXPANSION
11 Closing Remarks
With the LEXIT platform, IP, soft assets and company branches can be exposed to a
much wider audience than before.

We do not focus on only one side of the market
but both—sellers and buyers. For example, startup founders and researchers can
put their company or technological innovation on the platform. At the same time,
a search mechanism is provided that helps buyers to ﬁnd adequate oﬀers.  Liquidation of insolvent companies will be facilitated by the Platform. All assets can
be managed in one place. This is especially helpful with a larger number of assets
and an increased number of interested parties. Transparency of the market will be allowed for by blockchain technology. Transac-
tions are stored tamper proof in decentralized system of nodes. The LEXIT solution
will be powered by the LEXIT token (LXT) for accessing the platform and its services
as well as transacting value on it. Because of the platform nature of the LEXIT solution, informative data will be ac-
cumulated over time that can be harnessed with the help of big data techniques
to gain deeper insights in the current state of the market and its future develop-
ment. 23  Contact Details SINGAPORE
LEXIT Pte Ltd

150 Beach Road
#35-28
Gateway West
Singapore, 189720
Company Number: 20173617R
ESTONIA
LEXIT Technologies OÜ
Fr. R. Kreutzwaldi 10-10
10124 Tallinn
Estonia
Registry Code: 14401889
info@lexit.co
24 