Digital Assets: Regulation across
jurisdictions
 and
 future
considerations
1. New regulation for digital assets is coming
into force from June
2. Crypto-asset regulation differs per jurisdiction
3. To invest in digital assets, managers need to
consider knowledge gap and verification tools
Investment managers want to realise the potential of digital assets within their
portfolios. But first, managers need to understand the regulatory landscape
surrounding digital assets, and funds’ eligibility to invest in them. Angel Ramon
Martinez Bastida and Simon Ware map out how digital assets are regulated
across jurisdictions as the digital asset landscape matures  
The steep growth of interest in digital assets, or crypto-assets, as a means of
opening up private markets to more investors and creating new opportunities,
also  raises  challenges  around  AML,  regulation  and  safeguarding  to  create
certainty for investors.    
The surest way to allay investor fears and give crypto-markets the opportunity to
reach their potential is through robust regulation. For investment managers too,
understanding whether their funds are eligible to invest in digital assets and, if
so, where and which ones, is a vital step into the investment future.  
Before exploring how different jurisdictions are implementing and harmonising
regulation around digital assets, here’s a definition of key types of digital assets,
and coverage under existing regulation. European Markets in Crypto-Assets
(MiCA) regulation that takes effect in June and December this year refers to
digital  assets  not  currently  covered  by  existing  regulation  such  as
cryptocurrencies. The intent being that already regulated asset classes will
continue under the same regulation, whether in digital or traditional form.  
Categories of digital assets 
The term Digital assets broadly refers to all assets in which a cryptographic token
is used to represent value. However, there are important subsets within this main
category: 
Digital Currencies: Delivered in multiple forms, such currencies may be backed
by real central bank issued currency (think ‘e-Euro’), or unbacked but pegged to a
single or collection of currencies or following a complex algorithm to help manage
volatility. Such currencies are broadly considered ‘stablecoins’, this is in contrast
to the world-famous and fully decentralised Bitcoin, being unbacked, unpegged
and demonstrating higher volatility. Different approaches will depend on the
application, with greater transactional speed, transparency and interconnectivity
being key. 
Security Tokens: Typically, these are digital representations of either tangible
(Real-world-assets or RWAs) or intangible assets, designed to ease distribution
with transactional efficiencies, fractionalisation and potential liquidity. Given the
pre-existing recognition of many of these asset types (securities etc.), these
continue to be covered under existing regulation rather than being impacted by
MiCA (more to follow). An increasing range of such tokens are now reaching the
market, including gold, diamonds, real estate and equity, with the holder entitled
to the associated gains of the underlying tokenised assets. 
Utility Tokens: These tokens provide future access rights that can be redeemed
against  a  service  or  product,  rather  than  ownership,  and  are  typically  not
considered speculative assets to the same extent as other digital assets. Such
tokens typically have a more limited range of uses, their success being tied to the
utility of (and inherent value of) the creators’ application. An example of utility
tokens includes governance, being assigned to communities as a manner to
exercise voting rights.  
In practice, clearly categorising the wide range of digital assets between these
and different regulatory classifications is not always immediately clear – digital
currencies  may  track  mainstream  assets  with  or  without  being  backed  by
reserves, others may be backed by a range of non-FIAT currency assets or
proprietary algorithms, and may or may not be issued by a central authority.  
All these factors and more will influence which category the asset falls into.
Detailed classification information from the Blockchain Council can be found here
Regulatory approaches to digital asset funds 
The legislation that most shapes investment managers’ digital assets strategy in
Europe is MiCA, which came into force in June 2023, with the application of the
framework coming into effect this year. MiCA, adopted by the EU, harmonises
how the digital asset market will be regulated and applies to both traditional
institutions in the financial sector and new players emerging in the crypto
ecosystem, regulating digital assets issuance and service provision. To benefit
from a regulated status at European level, these entities must meet a set of
specific requirements. 
MiCA will apply in two main phases: first the rules applicable to the two types of
stablecoins (asset-referenced and e-money tokens) will apply from 30 June 2024,
while harmonised rules applicable to crypto-asset service providers will apply
from 30 December 2024. MiCA is part of the Digital Finance Package published in
2020 together with other regulatory initiatives such the Digital Operational
Resilience Act (DORA). 
Several  approaches  have  been  taken  across  jurisdictions  as  to  whether  an
alternative investment fund may invest directly in digital assets, and to what
extent.  Set  out  below  are  the  guidelines  for  the  jurisdictions  where  Aztec
operates.   
1. Luxembourg
The Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier (CSSF) has proactively
addressed this subject and has published several rounds of FAQs on the matter.
Currently, AIFs may invest in digital assets under the condition that their units
are marketed only to well-informed investors and exposures can be direct or
indirect (i.e., investments in financial instruments with digital assets). If their
AIFMs are authorised in Luxembourg, these funds will need an extension of their
license for investment in digital assets. Their depositaries also need to notify the
CSSF and have an appropriate operating model that integrates the specific risks
related to the safekeeping of these assets
2. UK
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) makes it clear that while the technology
remains ahead of the regulation, it’s a ‘buyers beware’ approach. However, in the
UK it is possible to be indirectly exposed to investment in digital assets for Non-
UCITS Retail Schemes (NURS), Qualified Investor Schemes (QIS) and Funds of
Alternative Investment Funds (FAIFs). Funds investing in digital assets can only
be marketed to professional investors and exposures can be up to 100%. Their
management company must be registered and subject to money laundering
regulations.
3. United States
Eligible vehicles for digital fund assets in the U.S. include trusts, mutual funds
and ETFs (exchange traded funds). Exposure allowances are tailored depending
on the vehicle and can be up to 100%. For trusts, only accredited investors are
able to invest, while for mutual funds and ETFs individual investors are included.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) urges investors considering a
fund with exposure to digital assets to carefully weigh up the potential risks and
benefits of the investment, and requests funds to provide important investor
protections  regarding  valuation  and  custody  of  fund  assets  or  liquidity
requirements (for mutual funds and ETFs).
4. Ireland
The Central Bank of Ireland (CBI) only allows indirect exposures to digital assets.
A Qualifying Investor Alternative Investment Fund (QIAIF) may invest up to half
of its net asset value in digital assets, being subject to different structure and
liquidity requirements depending on the extent of the proposed digital assets
investment.  AIFMs  managing  these  funds  must  have  appropriate  risk
management processes and procedures in place to manage specific risks related
to these assets and that the funds disclose such risks clearly in their offering
documents. Direct investment in digital assets is not permitted until such time as
it is demonstrated to the CBI that a depositary can meet its obligations under
AIFMD to provide custody or safe-keeping services to digital assets
5. Jersey
The Jersey Financial Services Commission (JFSC) has shown a proactive approach
to digital assets funds and approved the world’s first regulated cryptocurrency
investment fund in 2014. Since then, several digital asset funds have been
successfully set up in Jersey. Jersey Private Funds (JPFs) are suitable vehicles for
digital asset funds marketed to professional or eligible investors. Jersey Expert
Funds (JEFs) are an alternative when a wider investor population is targeted, as
these can be marketed to an unlimited number of expert investors. The regulatory
efforts  by  the  JFSC  have  been  centred  around  the  JPFs  and  JEFs’  service
providers, and not the funds themselves, for which an elevated level of flexibility
is allowed. 
6. Guernsey
The Guernsey Financial Services Commission (GFSC) has issued a statement
noting that it encourages innovation and will help those working within the digital
asset sector to better understand the regulatory framework. The GFSC treats
digital asset investments with the same thresholds and rigour as it does all
investments.  It  notes  though  that  it  will  require  additional  proof  that  the
professional investors are making an informed decision given the volatile and
speculative nature of these transactions. 
Future considerations:  
The rise of digital assets have led to a number of additional factors which private
fund managers and investors alike should consider, as we’ve detailed below: 
1. AML and transactional transparency 
Digital assets make it possible to trace every transaction an asset has ever been
part of, which raises risk and compliance questions. If someone gives you a $100
bill, you have no feasible way of knowing if that person got that money from an
ethical source. With digital assets, every transaction leaves a trail so the question
becomes about percentage or value of exposure.  
So, for example, if that $100 is part of an investment of $10, 000, it is but 1% of
the whole that is tainted, is that risk acceptable? Again, this becomes a risk policy
issue for the investment manager. If investors are able to access this level of
insight, does it follow they will adjust their expectations in line with it? For an
investment manager too, with considerations such as sanctioned persons or
countries, this could be a concern. Regulators too must decide on what due
diligence is necessary as a minimum.  
2. Mandatory reporting  
Effective  from  1  January  2026,  DAC  8,  an  EU  Directive  on  administrative
cooperation in taxation, requires information exchange and mandatory reporting
for CASPs (crypto-asset service providers) and digital assets operators. A CASP is
defined as a ‘legal person or other undertaking whose occupation or business is
the provision of one or more crypto-asset services to clients on a professional
basis and that is allowed to provide crypto-asset services’. The objective is to
increase tax transparency and safeguard investors across the EU. Before it takes
effect, the industry needs to assess how this new directive will impact their
operations.  
3. Knowledge gap 
For managers and investors there is the opportunity to learn more about how to
evaluate,  safeguard,  and  verify  digital  assets.  Existing  approaches  need
modernising and updating to cater for this emerging asset class.  
4. Enhanced Due diligence 
The other important issue is the verification of a digital asset. This means being
sure that once you have it there is no loophole or code that removes it from you,
for example. Also, it is essential to ensure that the token being purchased does in
fact represent the intended asset. Fortunately, market-ready specialist auditors
do exist to verify digital assets, but this represents an additional requirement for
investment managers and investors to evaluate the investment as they would any
other.  
5. The tipping point 
One thing is for sure, digital assets and the continued digitisation of the financial
sector will continue apace. Already, first credit cards and now phone payments
have disrupted the physical cash market and as comprehension and take up
continue around digital assets, banks will respond by developing their own, more
stable, versions and these central bank digital currencies (CBDCs) coming to
market is when digital assets will be considered mainstream.  
Digital assets are a new and evolving asset class that offer both opportunities and
challenges for investors and regulators. The regulatory landscape for digital asset
funds will continue to change and develop, as different jurisdictions balance
innovation and regulation, and manage cross-border transactions. Investors and
fund managers who are interested in digital assets should be aware of the legal
and  tax  implications  of  their  activities,  and  stay  updated  on  the  latest
developments and trends in this dynamic and exciting field. 
Aztec’s Innovation team are eagerly working to support digital asset investment
and administration in 2024. If you would like to discuss practical steps towards
investment in digital assets or gain more insights on the approach followed by the
different financial regulators, please contact Angel Ramon Martinez Bastida or
 Simon Ware.
